
00:00 
Welcome to The Way, to this short talk in which I want to speak about two things. Firstly, some background to our philosophy here at The Way, and secondly, a little explanation on how this app actually works. 

00:19 
So typically, over the last 25 to 30 centuries, if someone wanted training and meditation, they had to go somewhere, typically a place far away, remote, inaccessible and sequestered, where they would get trained, usually under one teacher, in a system of meditation that allowed them to develop the practice deeply. 

00:47 
The advantage of this kind of training is that it can actually take us on a really deep journey, one which can lead us into a deep change at fundamental levels of the mind and the heart. For sure, there's a place for short-term, non-systematic meditations designed principally to dial down stress levels in particular situations. 

01:16 
But the real journey of meditation, often known as The Way in East Asian meditation traditions, is really more than that. It's a path of change and growth. We believe that something like that deeper process of changing our experience in any moment, of opening our hearts more to this life, with all its beauty and its challenges, can be replicated in an app. 

01:50 
It's our mission to bring that to you. So certain things are going to happen here. First of all, we have purposefully remarried. moved all the myriad choices you are usually presented with in a meditation app and instead we offer you a single long-term journey that is carefully designed to guide you through all the major foundations of meditation practice. 

02:20 
So you have a single system, a single program that is all you need to have a really wholesome and fulfilling experience of meditation that can truly change your life in massively positive ways. The background to this program is a fusion of several deep traditions of meditation that I personally have been trained and authorized in over three decades and which we believe offer the best grounding and development for the meditative journey. 

02:57 
We get grounded in mindfulness. That's to say, the capacity to be more aware and responsive, awake and alert to the people and the events in our lives, and learning to act more positively. Our brains are good at running simulations, rehashing past events, rehearsing future events. 

03:23 
This couples with a strong negativity bias that we also have, which can make this kind of rumination quite unpleasant. This propensity of our brains has come to be known as the default mode, and neuroscience backs it up and has identified the networks that are associated with it. 

03:43 
But the good news is we can interrupt that, we can intervene with it, and the primary method for that is mindful meditation, becoming aware of when it's going on, and unhooking from it, and opening up to present moment experience. 

04:01 
But that's not all meditation is for. We also explore the major shifts that have come down in the traditions under the heading of awakening, meaning key insights and discoveries about who and what we actually are. 

04:22 
Meditation can be a premier laboratory for studying and challenging some of the core preconceptions we ordinarily live with about our sense of self and our relationship to the world. We can make discoveries about them that can be profoundly liberating and freeing to the human heart. 

04:47 
Now, secondly, onto the actual mechanics of how this works. Progress on this path happens step by step, systematically. a series of daily meditations. These are clustered into sets of sessions which we call retreats. 

05:07 
Each retreat is on a certain theme and includes generally one talk at the start, just like this one, to help frame what we'll be doing in the following meditation sessions. We recommend doing one guided meditation each day. 

05:25 
On the occasional day when there's also a talk, we suggest you listen to the talk and do the meditation session. We encourage you to follow our curated pathway in the sequence in which we've laid it out, but also recognize you may have constraints in your day and if you need to, you can skip through the talk and come back to it later. 

05:48 
Ultimately, sitting in meditation, having that period of stillness in your day is the most important thing. A 10-minute sit is certainly sufficient to build up a meditation practice but for those of you who want it we have included an option to listen to the same guidance for a 20 minute sit. 

06:12 
There's also a self-guided timer in the app where you can put what you're learning into practice with additional meditation time on your own. We hope you will come to love the journey that we have created for you here. 

06:29 
And that you will cherish the time you give to yourself with each daily sit. It can help and nourish deeper, clearer levels of who we each truly are to blossom and flourish for yourself, for your loved ones and for your wider community as this journey unfolds. 

06:52 
Thank you and bon voyage on the way. 
