
00:00 
Welcome to The Way. We're very grateful and happy that you've decided to give this a try. The Way is a single pathway of meditation training with no choice, just a journey through basic foundational mindfulness to discovering our deeper connectedness into beautiful states of absorption and flow all the way to glimpses of the reality of our non-separateness, of non-duality, of the boundless oneness of which we are truly apart. 

00:40 
That sounds like a lot, but actually it's not. It's a little because every step of the way all we do is one sit, one meditation, and that's enough. It's little by little, step by step, that we make what I believe is the great journey of a lifetime. 

01:00 
And how do we begin? Well, in Zen they say, to begin, begin. No preparation, we simply do it, and we're going to do it right now. So I invite you to come into a comfortable seated position. Let your body arrange itself as you would like, close your eyes, or if you prefer, lower your gaze, and start to arrive. 

01:34 
Just being here, just like this, meditation is really a little space that we invite ourselves into each day, a space where we can power down, where we're supported in doing much less. putting down, setting aside the tasks and activities of our day, giving our whole system a chance to rest and restore and recalibrate itself. 

02:22 
So let your body start to soften. Let your throat go soft and relaxed. Let your jaw slide just a little bit forward and down. Let the jaw release. A lot of us carry tension in the jaw. Just let it drop that little bit. 

02:52 
It won't go far. Just a sixteenth of an inch, an eighth of an inch, a millimeter. But let it make that little drop. Let your shoulders settle. Let your arms and hands be slack like old ropes. Now let your legs go slack. 

03:23 
Let them be loose. Thank you. All we're really doing is resting, and out of the state of rest, a slightly different kind of awareness can start to show itself, an awareness that can hear the sounds going on around us. 

03:55 
Let's listen for a moment. Thank you. Great. The restful awareness of meditation also knows how to enjoy simply being present. Just being present, noticing what it's like to be sitting still and quiet, just like this. 

04:46 
Thank you. We might think of meditation as some kind of special activity. But it may be better to understand it as simply a space in our day, when we're doing much less, when not engaged in our ordinary daily activities, we're granting ourselves a little time of basically doing more or less nothing, letting go of activity. 

05:31 
Thank you. What would it be like if we could really grant ourselves this little period of not doing anything? Thank you. What would it be like to have a little time when nothing at all was being asked of us? 

06:10 
A time when we're actually free to come back to ourselves, simply to be ourselves. Thank you. Meditation can actually be a kind of homecoming, a time of coming home, coming back to something intrinsic about who each of us really is. 

06:52 
Thank you. See if you can let your chest and belly be quite loose and soft. Maybe you can feel a subtle warmth in your torso, in your chest and belly. Thank you. Perhaps you can even taste a certain ease all through your system as it's granted this time of quiet and stillness. 

07:47 
Thank you. Let yourself listen. Thank you. Let yourself taste what it's like just to be still. Thank you. Okay, well congratulations, we just did our first sit on the way. Just before we go, I want to say a quick word. 

08:42 
There are many reasons to meditate. We might be experiencing anxiety or stress or going through very hard times or simply not finding joy in our daily grind. We might have curiosity about the big questions. 

09:00 
Who am I? What is this life? What is my true place in the universe? Meditation has evolved over 2,500 years or more to meet human beings right where we most need to be met. In the past, typically meditation was taught in sequestered places, places set apart, that he had to travel to and spend time in. 

09:28 
And usually you'd get trained in one system under perhaps one teacher. And that was great for going deep. Today, here at The Way, we're replicating some aspects of that traditional kind of training. We've laid out a path that progresses to take you deeper and deeper as you get trained in a systematic way. 

09:53 
And we're gonna teach you all you need to know to have a truly deep and fulfilling practice. But we're doing it, of course, in a modern context that you do not need to travel somewhere special in order to do. 

10:07 
We believe you can do this training right in the middle of your ordinary life. The habit of meditation can change our lives in massively positive ways. You've just taken the first step on the journey to doing precisely that. 

10:26 
It really is that simple, just being still for a little bit every day. I'll see you in the next session. 
