
00:00 
Welcome to our final sit in this retreat, in which we're going to return to a koan we have already explored, where the 16 practitioners all get into a hot tub together and all awaken at one and the same time. 

00:18 
Somehow the sensation of the warm water, the relaxation into it, is enough. And they all discover their non-separateness with the water and with everything. So we're going to explore whether this little story in the light of the five components may help all of us to discover a great ease and belonging. 

00:46 
Let's come into our comfortable seated position. Let's arrive here. And actually let's let go of any expectation we may put upon ourselves, any kind of performance anxiety or performance expectation. 

01:12 
All we're doing is returning to our very own experience here and now. So as we sit, we can just touch in on the story. All these serious meditators, they get into a hot plunge, a hot bath, together. And in the ease of that situation, they awaken. 

01:47 
Not in the sort of rigor and duress of the meditation hall, no, just getting into a warm bath. What if this sitting itself could be like a warm bath? Bath. Perhaps in the story they all really dial into the first component, just the sensation of the warm water. 

04:17 
Or perhaps in the story it's all about the second component, the pleasantness, and everything else drops away, any knowing, any reacting, even consciousness perhaps all gone, just pleasure. you What if this sitting were like a warm bath, something you can rest in, dissolve in, and everything else can fade away, just sitting. 

06:59 
Is there a way we could really dissolve into this moment, this sitting? What if, just for a moment, there could be nothing else, just this sitting, no awareness, no self, just this? you you dissolving absorbing into the ease of just this Okay, we'll bring some movement back into the body, we'll raise the eyes, we'll take an inhale and an exhale. 

10:50 
Great, congratulations, we've finished not just another retreat but another trail. As a quick recap, we did three retreats exploring the five components involving some quite intense analytical work and using them to set us up for a new approach on the koans. 

11:11 
Next up, we'll be taking a step back from the analytical approach of mindfulness that we've been deploying recently on the five components and basking in the experience of presence. Have a great rest of your day. 
