
00:00 
Welcome back. In this meditation we're again going to be exploring the sense of sound, our soundscape somehow so intimate to us, so close to us, and see whether it's possible to get a glimpse of what it would be to experience that without the other components. 

00:22 
Another Zen story that seems to celebrate an experience like that is of a master called Hakuin, who lived in 18th century Japan, who once heard a distant temple bell sounding from across the valleys. 

00:38 
And when he heard it, he awakened and said afterwards, there's nothing but the sound of the bell. So can we find that nothing but only sound? Let's come into our seated meditation position. Let yourself settle in, the operative word being settle. 

01:07 
Let the shoulders settle. Let the arms and hands settle. Let your whole upper body settle on your seat. And let your legs and feet be settled on the floor or ground. Now let your mind settle. It may be that it seems busy, but let the consciousness in your mind. 

02:00 
So whatever content there may be, thoughts and stories, let it do what it does but your mind is settled. you Start listening. you Is it possible to do nothing but listen? A far-away bell across the valley, and for Hakuin, just then, there's nothing but the sound of the bell, just the bell. 

04:53 
Let there be no effort here, it's more a matter of letting things settle and perhaps fall off, fall away, rather than having to make something happen, just the soundscape as it is. you whole body sinking and settling mind sinking and settling just sound See if you can really relax. 

07:32 
Nothing needs to happen, nothing needs to be done. This is open time, open space, right here. Just listen. Akuin and the distant bell became one. you you Just for a moment, an instant, can we let the soundscape be all there is? 

11:08 
Okay, gently bringing ourselves out of the meditation, moving the body, looking around a little bit, having a stretch if you'd like. So next up, we're going to move to another sense channel, touch. See you in the next sit. 

11:31 
Have a great day. 
