
00:00 
Welcome to our first sit on this new retreat in this one We're gonna be looking at a famous story in zen which we've actually touched on before on the way Kilgan who heard a pebble knock against a stalk of giant bamboo He was out sweeping a temple yard one morning when this happened and when he heard that hollow knock His whole world fell away and he said afterwards one knock and I've forgotten everything I ever knew So with our lens of the components we might say there was only the first component left Just the very sound the knock with no interpretation No understanding of it in his mind. 

00:50 
Just the sound itself Okay, let's come into our comfortable seated position Give yourself a moment to arrive here a New meditation a New period of stillness and quiet a New space in our day in our life For being still Quiet Hitting pause on everything else And just being here you Kyogen is out sweeping the yard, flicks a pebble against a stalk of bamboo, knock, one knock, nothing but that knock. 

03:08 
Listen to your own soundscape right now, first component, just the soundscape as it is. What if, just for now, this soundscape that you're hearing is the only thing there is? If other components come up – pleasant, unpleasant, naming and knowing of sounds or things, responses, reactions, impulses, I want, I don't want – if they come up, just let them do their thing and let them all be hollow, insubstantial, 

04:57 
empty. you When Kyogen heard that sound, the knock on bamboo. Nothing was left, just that one knock. Can you rest with the soundscape and somehow let everything else fall away? Nothing but sound. you you you Kyogen said, I've forgotten everything else I knew. 

08:36 
Only this one knock. So, all four other components are just gone. Only sound. Wiggle fingers and toes, raise eyes, look about you, come back into the space you're in. Great, so we've just broken ground on bringing together the study of the components with the kinds of awakening experiences recorded in the Koans. 

10:20 
Have a great rest of your day. 
