
00:00 
Welcome. In this new retreat, the last one on this trail, we're going to be exploring how the work we've been doing with the five components applies to awakening stories in Zen. In particular, we're going to be looking at a few koans which contain stories of awakening. 

00:22 
It's common throughout the Zen tradition that awakening is triggered by a sense experience of some kind, and the stories that we'll be looking at in this retreat are all like that. So here's one to begin with. 

00:40 
A student comes to a teacher called Schwansher and asks, how can I enter Zen? That question means, really, how can I awaken to my true nature, my non-separateness with everything? How can I do that? How can I enter Zen? 

00:59 
Schwansher answers, do you hear that babbling brook? Apparently, there's a stream running nearby. The student says, yes, I do. And Schwansher says, enter there. In other words, in that very sound you're hearing of the babbling brook, your own awakening to non-separateness is actually waiting for you, right there in that sound. 

01:30 
Now, whatever inscrutability or enigmaticness we might feel around koan stories like that, the work we've just been doing on these five components is very much a lens that might help us. Basically, in these koan stories of awakening through sense experiences, we could map out what is going on by means of the five components. 

02:01 
Typically, one or more of the components drop away in awakening. It might be that, for example, the encouragement that Shuanshi is giving right there is, can you hear that sound of the brook and there be nothing else? 

02:21 
So there's the sound, first component, but not an awareness of whether it's pleasant or unpleasant, not a naming or knowing of it as the sound of a brook. Not a response or reaction to it like, I want to go and get something to drink, that brook is reminding me it's time to fill up my bucket of water, etc. 

02:43 
No, none of that. And lastly, the consciousness, the fifth component, may even drop away as well. So then for the student, there is nothing but the sound of the brook. in the whole universe. That's the experience of it. 

03:00 
And in that, there's no separateness because there's nothing left to be separate. The heart of non-duality is the sense of self and the sense of everything else drops away. There's no difference, no distinction between me, the subject, and everything else, the object. 

03:22 
We're going to be picking up koans in this retreat and just giving them a little bit of a gloss by means of the components that we've been working on and sit with them with those components in mind and see what happens. 

03:41 
Once again, a reminder, we're not looking for any special experiences. We're just exploring our own actual experience. There's no right or wrong way to sit with a koan. We can run it through the mind now and then, or repeatedly, as we like. 

04:02 
See you in the first sit. 
