
00:01 
welcome back. There's a colon where a student is sitting before their teacher, and the teacher asks, have you realized who and what you really are? And the student says, I'm not sure, which is really saying no. 

00:21 
And the teacher then reaches across and grabs the corner of the student's robe or shirt and just pulls on it, a little tug, just a little pull on the shirt. And the student feels that little pull, that small sense experience of touch, of contact, and suddenly they awaken. 

00:46 
This is another case of just the first component being left. The other four have gone. There's so let's have a look at this in our meditation right now. Coming into stillness, getting arranged comfortably, supported, balanced, able to let the body go, let the body relax, release, let jaw go, let arms dangle, very slack, let legs be slack, let the torso be warm and soft, resting, and feel your clothing. 

01:55 
Feel the touch, maybe light pressure and warmth in your skin. In the koan, someone feels a light pool in their clothing. They feel it against their skin, and suddenly they realise it's all there is. I invite you to sense your hands and whatever contact they're making, either with one another or other objects, just feel that simple contact. 

04:39 
you You might stay with the hands or you could explore some other part of the body that calls to you where contact is happening. you Imagine, just for a moment, that there's nothing else. There's just this sensation of contact, of touch. 

08:00 
What if our life really were this simple, just this touch? How about, just for now, dwelling in the sensation of touch? Let's gently come out of the sit, bringing movement into the body, letting yourself inhale a little fuller, and exhale. 

10:34 
Great. So I do want to just say, I know some of these invitations may seem a bit inscrutable. Please remember, the important thing is you're sitting quiet and still each day. That's where the transformation happens over time, in its own good time. 

10:56 
Why not, through your day, see if there's a moment or two when you can just pause, close your eyes, and ask yourself, touch. Where am I experiencing touch right now? And then carry on with your day, wishing you a great rest of your day. 
