
00:00 
Hi, and welcome back. There's a story about a Japanese Zen master in the early medieval times who was given a gift of sweet melons by one of his students. Apparently he loved honeydew melons. So they cut one open right away and started feasting on it. 

00:19 
And the student said, it's very sweet. And the teacher said, yes, it is very sweet, isn't it? Then with a kind of quizzical smile, he asked the student, does the sweetness come from the melon or does it come from the tongue? 

00:35 
The student thought for a moment and says, it comes from the contact between the tongue and the melon. And the teacher then said, nah, you're just thinking. That's just purely conceptual. Actually, even the most enlightened adepts and masters cannot say where the sweetness comes from. 

00:56 
The real origin transcends both mind and things. So let's explore this coin and see whether our understanding of the five components in some way may help with this. Remembering that all five components are said to be empty, hollow, and insubstantial. 

01:23 
So let's come into our meditation posture and let everything go. Become like old rope. Loose. Three of any tension at all. you Picking up the little story, where does sweetness come from? From the fruit or from the tongue? 

03:15 
The teacher and student are sharing honeydew melon, very sweet. Does the sweetness come from the tongue, or from the melon, or from neither? As components, there's sweet taste, there's pleasantness, there's knowing it's the melon, there's knowing it's the tongue, there's liking it. 

04:46 
What if all of them are insubstantial, hollow, empty? you Where does the experience of sweetness actually come from? What is it made of? What is it? Where does the experience of sweetness come from? Even the buddhas and ancestors cannot say. 

08:19 
What is the origin of the actual experience of sweetness? What is it actually made of? As an experience, what is sweetness? bringing movement back into the body, move the toes, move the fingers, let yourself rock back and forth a little bit, open the eyes, come back to here and now your place of meditation, the space that you're in. 

11:01 
One beautiful thing about koans is that they're so embedded in our ordinary daily experience of the world, our seeing, hearing, touching, tasting of things. And really of anything we experience, we can ask the fundamental koan question, what is this? 

11:21 
Why not try this now and then through your day? Wishing you well. 
