
00:00 
Hi. Another story that we've encountered earlier on the way was about the student, and later teacher, Daishan. He was visiting another teacher as a young man when that teacher suddenly blew out a paper lantern, the equivalent of a candle in medieval China. 

00:22 
At that moment, Daishan had a very profound awakening experience. Afterwards, he said, there was just one great abyss, a vast ravine, and wherever he looked, he saw nothing, nothing. So this experience would seem to be a matter of the first component, sight being the triggering one, Daishan saw the lamp being blown out, and then everything, including sight, was eliminated. 

00:50 
It was as if he saw through all of the five components completely, and there was just basically nothing. It became the turning point in his life, and he was sort of filled with joy and became a very powerful and helpful teacher whose legacy lives on today, actually. 

01:13 
So let's come into our comfortable seated position just as we are. Let the body notice that it's being given a chance to be still. Something in the body wants to relax, to unwind, unbind, and settle into ease. 

01:45 
you So, in the koan, Deshan was talking with his teacher late at night. The teacher offered him a lantern so he could find his way back to the dormitory. As he reached for it, the teacher blew out the lamp. 

02:09 
Suddenly, darkness. Deshan saw the lamp being blown out and suddenly awakened. The teacher blew out the lamp. Perhaps some sense of unpleasantness in the darkness. Perhaps a reaction. Hey, I need some light. 

04:36 
Suddenly, all of it gone. you you We might look for meaning in a koan, but in a way that's just the fourth component at work wanting to understand. What if that too is totally empty, just blowing out the lamp? 

07:03 
There's really no need to do anything with a koan, it's not something to solve, it's something just to be with and receive. The teacher blew out the lamp. All Deshan's plans, all his expectation, all his understanding, suddenly vaporized, gone, just lamp blown out. 

08:43 
you Lamp blown out, suddenly darkness Okay, coming back to our seat here in the space that we're in, bringing some gentle movement back into the body, looking around, quick stretch if that feels good. 

11:07 
Great, just a quick reminder of what we're doing here. We're using the work and study and practice that we've been doing with the five components and bringing it to bear on the co-hands. It might shed some unexpected light on them, whether that comes right away or somewhere down the road. 

11:31 
Thank you for your time of stillness and quiet and openness to trying out these practices. Have a great rest of your day. 
