
00:00 
Welcome to our first sit in this new retreat on flow and the presence of flow and how flow can feel like presence. Before we dive in, just a quick word on the word flow. There's a way in which all our experience is a kind of flow. 

00:20 
It's like a flowing stream. That can show up in the way that all the different sense experiences we have just keep on arising. It's something like the stream of consciousness, one thing after another arising in experience. 

00:39 
But there's also a way in which the very fabric of all sense experiences, when we drill down into it, is a kind of flow itself. As we sink and settle into it, it can become subtly undulatory, like waves. 

00:58 
It can become kind of glassy and watery. It can become pixelated, flickering pixels of experience. So we'll be exploring flow in that sense as well as the sense of being carried into effortless ease. 

01:19 
Okay, let's get ready for our first sit, coming into your own ideal, comfortable, easy posture for meditation. And see if you can drop in right away. Becoming present. Noticing what's here, what's here within you and around you. 

01:58 
Sense the body and let it soften, a kind of wholesale softening of the body. And here we are, attending to our actual life. Thank you. Thank you. Soft body, soft mind, and starting to notice the flow of experience, the sense of the body, the soundscape, thoughts and feelings that come and go, the stream of life. 

04:42 
Can you rest in simply being present to the flow of sense impressions? Thank you. Is there a way that, along with the sense impressions themselves, you can also start to sense even just a little bit the flow that's carrying them. 

07:12 
By resting and not trying, can we just let the flow of experience stream through us? . Thank you. Letting the stream of experience wash through something like an easy tidal flow washing through. Thank you. 

09:37 
Is there a way we can gently smile at the flow of experience, letting it do its thing? bringing some movement back into the body, a little swaying from side to side, looking around you, coming back out of the meditation. 

11:05 
Great. In this first sit in this retreat we've been exploring a flavor of flow, which is the natural stream of experience rolling, washing through our awareness. By all means why not see if you can be aware of this flowing stream of sense impressions now and then outside of meditation in the course of your day. 

11:33 
Have a great rest of your day. 
