
00:00 
Welcome back. In this sit we're gonna revisit and take a bit further what we did in the last sit. In that session we were exploring experience being something like an ever-flowing stream. In this one we're gonna see if we can tune in a little bit to the stream itself. 

00:25 
What is the medium as it were in which all our sense impressions are carried. Let's come into our meditation, get set up in your body, find the position of ease and of stillness and of softness. And arrive here right where you are. 

01:05 
Thank you. Nice, just turning on that state of being As if we open up We recognize the presence of Here and now of experience as it is just now So let's spend a little moment now listening Listening to the soundscape Seeing if we can recognize its ever-flowing nature Thank you. 

02:58 
Let's also be aware of the body, perhaps its warmth or a tingling sensation in the body, a vibratory quality. Can we recognize how that also flows? Now, becoming aware of the screen of sight, whether behind closed eyelids or in the form of the colours and shapes we're seeing, can we recognise a subtle sense of flow here also? 

04:38 
Thank you. Is there a way we can sense that the presence in which, to which, these sense impressions arise, the presence itself is also a kind of flow? Thanks for watching! What if there's really nothing static or stationary in our field of experience? 

07:00 
And it's all a kind of flux and flow. Thanks for watching! If all our sense experience is a kind of stream or flow, can we recognize that it's not solid? Thank you. Is it possible to taste in the flow of sense experience something almost see-through about it, or watery, or translucent? 

10:32 
Is there a way all our experience might be subtle and clear? Thank you. Thank you. Hmm, lovely. Gently coming out of our sit with some body movements and perhaps looking around. We've just taken another step in the process of coming to know our ordinary experience in a less ordinary way. 

12:06 
Have a lovely rest of your day. 
