
00:03 
Welcome back to another exploration of presence and how it might open us up to the experience of non-duality, of not being a separate entity among a multitude of other separate entities, but instead part of one wholeness. 

00:24 
So last time we were looking at this Zen expression, one mind, and in this one I want to bring in another Zen expression, one body. We'll explore whether this little phrase might be inspiring or helpful in our practice. 

00:44 
Coming into a comfortable seated position, letting everything go, arriving here into a state of ease and rest and presence, effortless presence. Thank you. Let's taste effortlessness in the body, let your face go slack, your jaw sink, let the throat release any effort at all, let it really soften. 

01:47 
Let there be no effort at all in the arms and hands, chest, belly, slack, no effort, no holding, legs and feet, likewise, loose, whole body, effortless and loose. Thank you. Sometimes, in Zen, they say the whole universe is one body. 

03:25 
Is there a way that this very body here, that we can sense, could be part of one entire body, including everything? Once again, there's no need to be trying to make something happen or trying to experience something. 

04:47 
Just rest in the presence of this body, just as it is. Thanks for watching! Resting in presence, presence of the body, presence of all experience, is there a way it might all be one body? Thank you. Is there a way that both our experience and our awareness of what we experience could be one single presence, one whole body? 

08:30 
Resting in a kind of... of singularity, a wholeness, all this being one body. Thank you. All our experience, all our awareness, being just one body. Bringing movement back into the body, coming out of the meditation, looking around, returning to the space that you're in. 

11:07 
With our increasingly deep exploration of presence on this trail, we've come to the point where we're examining presence as the state of awakening. And we're trying out different invitations to see whether we can catch a glimpse of that. 

11:24 
We just were working with the old Zen phrase, one body. Next up, we'll be trying out no mind. See you in the next sit. 
