
00:00 
Welcome to our first sit in this new retreat, the last retreat actually of this trail on presence. We're going to be exploring the sense of presence as something already awakened, meaning no self, no limit, and no center. 

00:23 
So it's like discovering a quality of presence where we're not there. It's open to everything, including the arising of a sense of self, but the presence itself doesn't have that. It's also boundless, limitless, infinite. 

00:41 
So I know that might sound like rather a tall order, but let's just go step by step and see what we might catch a glimpse of. Let's come into a comfortable seated position. As we start out, letting yourself get settled, supported, balanced, kind of steady, steady in body, steady in mind, steady in heart. 

01:31 
We're giving ourselves to the practice of meditation right now, being still, being quiet, and just being. Thank you. To be, to simply be, is to be present. It is to recognize. presence. Can you recognize presence now? 

04:05 
presence is aware, it's restful, it's awake, and it recognizes all experience as it arises. Thank you. Thanks for watching! We don't have to work to find presence, it appears as we rest, settle and allow ourselves to just be. 

05:35 
Thank you. Thanks for watching! Can you taste a quality of awakeness that's already here, that's always here, that is in all experience and somehow just behind all experience? awake presence is closer than close, it's not something you need to look for, it's already here, in the very heart of your own being. 

08:17 
and your own experience. Thank you. letting awakeness come forth, letting it seep out of the very experience present now. We'll gently come out of the meditation now, bring some movement into your toes, your fingers, your upper body. 

10:47 
Great. So we've just begun another series of invitations toward the state of awakening, this time through the sense of presence. I always think it's really best not to be trying to find awakening. Just let the invitations sort of wash through and whatever sticks, sticks. 

11:09 
Have a lovely rest of your day. 
