
00:02 
Welcome back. So in this sit we're going to explore the Zen condition sometimes called one mind. We're going to see whether there's a way that this presence we're exploring can show up as one all-inclusive mind. 

00:22 
So let's come into our seated posture for meditation. Give yourself a little moment to get balanced, to get supported the way you want to be. If you are sitting with your back unsupported, I do think balance is helpful. 

00:47 
You might try a little gentle rocking backwards and forwards, just an inch or two maybe either way, seeing if you can feel out where the balance area is. We want to have the crown of the head basically floating over the seat and whatever position you're in, let your shoulders relax. 

01:17 
Let your arms, hands, fingers go limp. Let chest and belly relax, be loose. And let the legs and feet be loose. And notice how sweet it can be just to be here. Relaxed steady body, relaxed steady mind, just being the human being that you are. 

02:00 
Thanks for watching! Being what you are before you do anything. Thank you. This being, simple being, just as you are, the nature-given creature that you are, is very close to awakened presence, actually. 

03:16 
Thank you. So, is there a way that you can sense a wholeness in experience right now, as if all of experience were one mind? Thank you. Thank you. Can we get a sense of presence being really one mind, one mind holding the entirety of experience right now? 

05:46 
Thank you. Is there a way we can sense that our life is really all arising within one big mind, one larger mind? Whatever we may experience, a body sensation, a sound, a thought, a feeling, what if they're all arising within one presence, one mind? 

07:49 
Thank you. Without trying, without effort, can we just rest in one mind, one whole, all-encompassing presence? Thank you. Could it be that what we really are, what our true nature is, is one mind, one all-inclusive mind? 

11:16 
Gently, coming out of the sit, bringing movement back into the body, coming back into the space you're in, why not see whether now and then through your day you can just punctuate your activities with a moment of stillness and ask the question, is this one mind? 

11:40 
Have a great rest of your day. 
