
00:00 
Welcome back. In this final session of our retreat and of this trail on presence, we're going to explore what is really here. This is a fundamental question of Zen, sometimes phrased what is this, sometimes also phrased who am I. 

00:20 
Either way, it's really coming to the study of what is the nature of all of our experience, of our life. What actually is it? The promise of the great wisdom traditions and practice traditions is that these seemingly imponderable questions can have a kind of resolution, not mentally or conceptually, but in our actual experience, and it comes through practice. 

00:54 
Great. So let's get settled in our meditation posture, letting yourself be the support, letting yourself be supported the way you want to be, and finding stillness, letting the whole body drape, dangle, go slack, become loose, and easy at ease. 

01:41 
Starting to recognize the presence of sense experience, starting to recognize our own presence to experience, Thank you. Resting as is. Thanks for watching! Noticing the, noticing the flux and flow of the dust of sense experience. 

03:22 
The micro pixels of sensations. What really are these micro-particles of sensation? You You Thank you. Noticing that there is a presence that recognizes the field of micro-sensations, of experience. What is this presence? 

05:54 
What is it made of? What actually is the substance of presence? Is it a substance? Is it totally insubstantial? Is it made of anything? Is it possible that presence is made of nothing? wide open. Thank you. 

09:24 
Could it be that both presence and the dust cloud of experience are insubstantial, not made of anything? What is all this? What is all this? Thank you. Thank you. Inviting the body to gently sway from side to side, taking in a slightly deeper breath and letting it go, opening or raising the eyes, coming back into the space you're in. 

12:09 
Great, well thank you so much for coming on this little journey with me, exploring what our presence is, what in a sense our life actually is. We've come at it from various angles, getting to know it as a bedrock of support in our lives. 

12:29 
Congratulations on finishing another trail on the way. Wishing you a fine rest of your day. 
