
00:00 
Welcome back. I mentioned earlier a story about a friend who had been walking into a parking lot in the desert and suddenly experienced his own mind as not really there. Instead, there was nothing but a kind of wild openness, an openness that was open to absolutely everything. 

00:25 
In some sense, he said it felt like an infinite openness. Rather than having the mind he always thought he had, there was actually just a boundless openness. In an earlier sit in this retreat, we sat with the phrase one mind. 

00:45 
But in this sit, we're going to see whether the phrase no mind, which is deep in the Zen tradition, may help us come to some kind of sense of presence as a radical openness, almost as if there is no mind there at all. 

01:04 
Let's come into a comfortable seated position. Get yourself balanced and steady. We want to have a position that really helps us just be present, that there's nothing we have to do by putting aside all the ordinary tasks of our lives we get to do something else which is not a doing, it's just being. 

01:46 
And another name for it is presence. Resting in and as presence. Thank you. What if what presence really is, is just openness? Presence itself having no characteristics, just being open to all. Let the mind rest. 

04:23 
Imagine that it's not really needed half as much as it thinks it is. What would it be like to really set aside the mind? Let it truly rest. Thank you. What if the mind made itself up, and it's never quite been here the way it thought it was? 

05:54 
Thank you. What if, all along, there's been a radical openness free of mind? What if all along We haven't been the mind we thought we were. We've been a radical openness, no mind. Thank you. No mind, just this. 

09:21 
No mind, just this. Gently coming out of our meditation, moving the body, raising the eyes, coming back to the space you're in. I know these invitations and prompts may seem weird at times. My advice is really just to kind of bear with them because we never know when one may just trigger something or light a little spark. 

10:59 
So we've just been exploring no mind. Next up, we're going to try out no body. Have a lovely rest of your day. 
