
00:00 
Welcome back. We started out this trail exploring presence, being present ourselves to our experience, and also our experience being present to us, a kind of two-sided presence, the presence of the things of the world and our presence to them. 

00:24 
There's an old Zen teaching. In fact, it's a koan, which is a single word, the word mu. Mu is usually translated as not or non, but it can also be translated as absence. What if the deepest nature of presence is actually an absence? 

00:48 
We're going to start exploring that in this sit, absence. Okay, let's come into our comfortable seated position. Let's drop in. Imagine that you're a pebble that's been dropped into a pond, and the moment you break the surface and start sinking into the depths of the water, presence arrives. 

01:21 
You start being here, settling in the waters of presence. Thank you. Starting to recognize the great field of sense experience, of sensations, sounds, body sensations, sight, light and dark, and now and then thoughts and emotion, tone, all experience, showing up as it does. 

02:15 
Thank you. Thank you. Just letting ourselves be present to the gentle stream of experience. What if all our experience of whatever kind were really a flowing cloud of pixels, of micro-sensations, almost like a cloud of dust? 

04:43 
Thank you. Could it be that all our experience is really made up of tiny particles? resting in the field of the dust particles of experience. What if the particles that make up experience were so subtle, so slight, that they're almost a kind of absence? 

08:14 
Thank you. Thank you. What if all the micro-sensations of experience were made of a kind of emptiness, an absence? Letting the body start to sway from side to side, coming back to the space that you're in, raising the eyes, being present once again, great. 

10:50 
Why not see whether through the course of your day, when opportunity arises, you can just hit the pause button and simply say the word to yourself, absence, and just see what effect it might have. Have a great rest of your day. 
