
00:01 
Welcome to a meditation on another phrase, no body. Quite often I've heard people report that they had an experience in meditation where their body seemed to become completely transparent. I believe this is a quality or phenomenon that we can taste from time to time in samadhi or meditative flow. 

00:26 
There's another quality of a sense of having no body that is reported in the Zen tradition. One master said after her awakening, not a square inch of earth on which to stand. And she meant it in a very positive way. 

00:43 
It was a very freeing experience. So let's see whether we might catch some kind of taste of not quite having a body the way we think we do. Yeah, coming into a comfortable seated position, arranging this body comfortably and well for the state of meditation, the state of just being. 

01:20 
Let your body settle. Let your body be present. Let your body be doing nothing, just being, just as it is. Settling. Resting. Can you enjoy the sense of the body? the field of body sensation. Thank you. 

03:04 
is there a way that the field of body sensation is actually quite subtle, even diaphanous, see-through, lots of little vibrations, hums, tingles, pulses, but all very subtle? Is there a way that all these micro-sensations of the body are arising in an open presence? 

04:41 
Arising in an openness that's without substance? Thank you. Is there a way that the open presence in which body sensations arise might be quite insubstantial, made of nothing? Is there a way that the micro-sensations of the body are like a cloud of pixels? 

08:11 
Could the sensations of the body be... like a cloud of dust particles almost made of nothing. Thank you. Is there a way that the body might almost not be here at all? Instead there's just a field of openness. 

10:37 
Slowly swaying from side to side, slowly moving the body, bringing it back into more ordinary awareness, looking around, coming out of the meditation. Once again, the most important thing is just doing our daily period of stillness and quiet. 

11:08 
If we happen to get glimpses that some of these invitations are pointing to, great, but it doesn't matter as much as the fact that we're giving ourselves this time simply to be. Have a great rest of your day. 
