
00:00 
Welcome to this new retreat, our last retreat on this trail, exploring presence. We're getting to the point now when we, when we can start to experience presence and explore, we're getting to the point now where we can start to explore presence, not as something that we kind of do, as in let me be present to experience, rather something we discover. 

00:26 
Presence as a pre-existing condition that is in fact all pervasive. So not only does it, not only do we discover it as already here sort of for ourselves, but already here for everything. So everything, all manner of experience, including our sense of self, is arising in presence as a pre-existing condition or reality. 

00:56 
And what is this presence? Well, as we start to explore it in this retreat, we'll be getting to see that it may be boundless, infinite. It may be everywhere all at once. It may be without any identifiable size or dimension. 

01:16 
It may be completely without time. It may be, in other words, something that can only be discovered at this level through awakening, through the discovery of non-duality, something that simply can't be measured, something that can't be seen by a separate self. 

01:37 
It can only be discovered when the sense of a separate self is gone. And we discover that what we really are is in fact this very presence itself. We're not a separate viewer of it, still less a witness or owner, possessor of it. 

01:55 
We are it. And it is not just us, but all things. So, that might sound like kind of quite a mouthful, but I think we're actually quite well placed now to start exploring whether little glimmers and cracks and openings and glimpses of this nature of things might show up for us. 

02:19 
In this retreat, we'll be trying out a series of different invitations that might open up a recognition of this kind of order of presence as something that we can only discover really through awakening. 

02:36 
I do want to just say with this matter of awakening that many of us might feel it'll never happen to us, I'll never get it, I'm not made right to have that experience. I hear of other people having these glimpses of some timeless, spaceless order of things and how wonderful it is for them, but it's never going to happen to me. 

02:59 
I thought like that myself. I've known many other people who thought like that, and lo and behold, they were wrong. We were wrong. Unexpectedly, you never know when something may just happen. It may well not happen while doing a sit. 

03:17 
That's an important point here. I know many people who were doing their regular practice, but it was not during practice that some kind of sudden revelatory thing struck them. One good friend had been climbing in the mountains of California, and he was walking back down to the car park where he'd left his car at the end of a day. 

03:40 
And suddenly, the world kind of blew open for him. Another friend was doing up her shoelaces prior to going for a run. And all of a sudden, there was nobody there, no shoelaces, no shoes. What on earth was all this? 

04:00 
She had a sudden entirely new perspective on who she'd been all along. So let's just diligently do our practice without expectations, and with gratitude that we're able to practice. I always think, in a way, I always think it's a way of acknowledging the vast mystery of things just to sit still. 

04:31 
I'll see you in the next sit. 
