
00:00 
Welcome to this new trail. We're continuing to explore how the realm, the territory of support, can help us find our way to deeper meditative states and conditions, and indeed to the non-dual. And we're going to pick up some koans again here. 

00:24 
Koans are highly supportive for practice. They can really help us drop in and become more present. They can sometimes bring us, carry us into flow states. They share with us the lives and struggles and breakthroughs of many different practitioners over the millennia, which can be very inspiring and motivating, and also shows us that we're not alone. 

00:51 
We're doing this practice in the company of many, many others across centuries and indeed thousands of years. And they also express in their enigmatic, inscrutable, marvelous way, the reality of non-dual experience. 

01:07 
I want to start with one of the great figures of Tang Dynasty Zen, someone called Zhao Zhou, or in Japanese, he's known as Zhou Xu, and he lived from 778 to 897, which is 120 years by East Asian reckoning. 

01:29 
We'd call it 119 years. His longevity is actually considered by scholars to be for real, you know, not legendary. The Chinese at that time kept very good records. Quite a number of the old Zen figures did have apparently very long lives. 

01:47 
They lived a healthy lifestyle in these intramontane valleys. That's valleys up in the mountain ranges where they worked in the fields, cultivating rice and vegetables. rituals, had a healthy diet, and they also, of course, meditated a lot. 

02:07 
And there's quite a bit of contemporary evidence that meditation can indeed give us more longevity. There's some research into telomere lengths being sustained by regular meditation practice. Zhao Zhou began meditating quite young as a use. 

02:26 
And one of the first koans in his biography that we have is one called, Ordinary Mind is the Way. We've touched on this before in our pathway here on The Way. He came to his first teacher, Nanchuan, and asked him, What is the way? 

02:44 
And his teacher answered, Your ordinary mind is the way. He then asked, Should I turn towards it? In other words, should I try to find it? And Nanchuan… answered, if you turn towards it, if you try to find it, you go against it. 

03:08 
In other words, don't try to find it. Trying to find it is a way of pushing it away. So this is a great, mysterious invitation to the non-dual, that you can't find it by trying to find it. Why not? Well, because it's already here, and it's already actually what you are. 

03:34 
Joshu apparently had something of a breakthrough on hearing this, but it was really just the first of many breakthroughs, some of them considered to be very deep and thoroughgoing breakthroughs, that he had in the course of his life. 

03:50 
He's very interesting in that he trained for 40 years, till he was 59 years old, when his teacher Nantuan died. He then performed three years of kind of obsequies, or in a ceremonial morning, for his beloved teacher, and thereafter embarked on a 20-year pilgrimage, just wondering wherever he happened to feel he was being taken, and meeting other practitioners, other masters. 

04:21 
And at the end of those 20 years, he finally settled down at the age of 80, and began teaching for the next 40 years until he died. And it's considered a really exemplary, kind of perfect life of Zen, a perfect life, guided and entrusted fully to the way. 

04:44 
So in this retreat, we're going to be exploring a series of koans, starting with this one, that will kind of carry us through something of an arc of Zhao Zhou's life and biography. So we'll pick this first one up in the next session, which will be our first meditation in this new retreat. 

05:09 
See you there. 
