
00:00 
Hi, welcome back to this exploration of the life and development of the great teacher Zhao Zhou, who lived in China in the 9th century. Just a reminder, we've been looking at his first training encounter with his teacher Nan Chuan. 

00:21 
When he asks him, what is the way? And Nan Chuan says, the ordinary mind is the way. So right now we're going to flip it and think about the way being your ordinary mind. The way is nothing but your ordinary consciousness. 

00:38 
So let's see how it is to sit with that in this session. We'll come into a comfortable seated position and we'll kind of power down. Let the body mind system come to rest for a little bit. Let the heart be open and soft. 

01:15 
Let the mind be perhaps a little more open and let the body relax, find its own natural ease. Yeah, just settling into being here like this right now. The way is your own mind, your experience, your consciousness. 

01:58 
Nothing special, just your own awareness. So there's all our experience, our hearing, our sense of the body, thoughts and feelings. All of them arise in our consciousness, our ordinary consciousness. 

03:23 
Invitation is just to be a bit more aware of consciousness itself. Is there a way we can rest in our own ordinary consciousness, consciousness that's always been here? you Resting in ordinary consciousness, maybe even resting as ordinary consciousness. 

06:56 
The way, perhaps all there is to it, is just getting to know your own mind, your own consciousness. The way is ordinary mind, no need to be trying to find something special, ordinary consciousness right here. 

08:26 
you you Really, letting ourselves relax and just be present to our ordinary, everyday, present moment consciousness. gently bringing ourselves out of this sit rocking backwards and forwards opening or raising the eyes taking a deeper inhale and exhale great we've been exploring how this koan might help us to trust our own experience and our own minds as our very own pathway to greater understanding of this life for jaojo this entire encounter with his teacher his first dialogue with his teacher that's come down to us was critically important we're going to be checking in with the next stage in that dialogue the next question jaojo asked in our next sit have a great rest of your day 
