
00:00 
Welcome to another session on the way. We've been exploring Zhao Zhou and the teaching he's received from his teacher about not seeking, and I want to add a comment here from Yamada Cohen, the 20th century Zen master, on this part of the coin. 

00:19 
He says, the more you seek it, the more it will elude you. If you hunt for it, you'll never find it. If you do not search for it, but truly identify yourself with one thing with your own experience, then you're in accordance with the way. 

00:39 
When you're truly one with experience, you're one with yourself, and the time will come when you'll realize your own self nature. I take this to mean that all we have to do is just settle into our own experience on our own consciousness, and we'll find everything we could ever want. 

01:00 
Perhaps on a more everyday level, many of us will have had experiences where we've been working hard on a problem, we get up to do something quite different, unload the dishwasher or something, and the solution suddenly appears to us. 

01:15 
So let's come into stillness once more. Let your mind settle. Let your body soften and come into a state of rest and ease. Arms really, without any tension at all in them, fully relaxed. Legs also completely limp. 

01:57 
Jaw and throat. Limp And letting your experience show itself you Letting your consciousness come into its own. Nothing to seek, just this experience arising now. can we become one with our experience? 

03:42 
Rather than trying to make it any different, let it be whole and complete, just like this. If we do notice an impulse to seek something different arising, let that be part of the wholeness of your experience. 

05:06 
you you Is there a way there might be no gap between us and our experience? One wholeness. One experiencing. Can we really be open to any seeking that comes up in our experience and just be with it? It's part of the whole of experience. 

08:36 
What if, truly, this is it, we're all ready, whole and complete? you you Letting yourself rest into this moment, this experience. as we come out of this sit see if you can maintain the same level of awareness and just bring movement back into the body and raise the eyes but remain just as aware as you've been during the sit. 

11:15 
Okay next up we're going to move to the next portion in this interesting dialogue between Zhao Zhou and his teacher. Thanks for practicing with us. Have a great rest of your day. 
