
00:00 
Welcome back. So I want to bring in now the latter part of this koan, the whole koan being the dialogue that Zhao Zhou is having with his teacher very early on in his practice and training process. His thoughts have been 18, by the way, at the time of this dialogue. 

00:19 
So having been told that it's not helpful to try to seek the way, if he does try to seek it, he's going against it. Zhao Zhou then asks, if I don't try to find it, how can I ever know that it is the way? 

00:35 
How could I ever know that I have found it, if I'm not trying to find it? And his teacher answers, the way does not belong to knowing or not knowing. We're going to explore this part of the koan now. 

00:51 
Let's come into a comfortable seated position. Let yourself sway a little bit from side to side, or rock back and forth gently. Let your arms become completely slack like old ropes. Let your legs also become completely slack. 

01:19 
Let the whole body become limp. At rest. At ease. Right here. Now. So the question now is, if I don't try to find the way, how will I ever know what the way is? And the teacher says, the way is not a matter of knowing or not knowing. 

01:58 
Somehow the way predates all our knowing, perhaps. So if it's not something we know the way we know other things, could it be something in the very fact of experiencing anything at all? Once again, can we park our minds and just be? 

03:26 
Before I know anything, is there something that's already here? What might it be that has always been here? It has been said that you can't get the way, you can't acquire the way. It's been here all along. 

04:49 
What is it that's always been here? you you If the way is not a matter of knowing, is it perhaps a matter of experiencing, of being, just like this? What is it that has always been here, has been here all along? 

08:11 
The way does not belong to knowing or not knowing, perhaps just to being. What if you are already the way? Let's stay aware as we bring movement back into the body. Let the upper body sway or rock. Let yourself stretch a little bit. 

10:40 
Look around the space you're in while staying aware. Great. So just like joshu, when we sit here on the way each day, it's less about whether we understand or feel like we're getting it, and more about simply being here in our practice. 

11:04 
A quick tip. Why not try now and then through your day just pausing and asking yourself, where is the way right now? And then carry on with your day. Wishing you well. 
