
00:00 
Hi, and welcome back. I want to take just a moment to consider the term the way. In Chinese, the word is dao. In Japanese, it's dou. And broadly speaking, it has more or less two meanings. One is as a method or a path or a means to something. 

00:22 
For example, there's sado, the way of tea, and aikido, the martial art. And in that sense, we could call the path of practice the way. And related to this, it's also ordinary things, doing what they ordinarily do, the way of all things, we might say. 

00:45 
But it also has a different sense, which is more something like the absolute way. And the absolute way means, in a sense, the fundamental nature of everything, the reality that all things are an expression of. 

01:03 
And in this other meaning, we could take it to be a reference to essentially the reality of the non-dual, of non-separateness, of one all-inclusive whole, on all-inclusive reality that all things, in fact, are. 

01:19 
Of course, most importantly, including we ourselves. In this sit, let's explore the way. Let's come into a comfortable seated position. Let your arms go slack. Let your legs become limp. you Let your whole body soften and... 

02:00 
Dangle like a ragdoll. you Open up to listening, to the soundscape. you Ordinary experience, here and now, is the way. Ordinary experience is our path, our way. Experience right now, just as it is, is our way. 

04:49 
The invitation here is really to let ourselves settle into experience just as it is, hearing, sensing the body, thoughts if they arise, emotion tone if it's present, letting it all be just as it is. you ordinary experience is the way. 

07:22 
Ordinary experience is also somehow the ultimate, the absolute way. It's all there is. The ordinary is the way. Nothing special, nothing unusual or extraordinary needed, just this is the ultimate way. 

08:52 
you What if awakening itself is not about some extraordinary special experience? It's a glimpse into the real nature of the ordinary. Okay, let's gently come out of this sit, bringing movement back into the body, maybe wiggling fingers and toes, looking around. 

11:22 
Great. So, an invitation for your day, now and then. See if you can just pause a moment and ask yourself, what is the way? And carry on, wishing you a fine rest of your day. 
