
00:00 
Hi and welcome back. So we've been exploring this encounter between Zhao Zhou and his teacher, and as they have their dialogue we've been hearing how line after line of it kind of throws up a fresh koan. 

00:16 
Zhao Zhou has just been told that the way is not a matter of knowing or not knowing, and then the teacher says, when you really reach the way beyond all doubt you find it vast and boundless as the great empty sky. 

00:33 
This is something of a clincher in the whole koan, and that's what we're going to sit with now. It's the most definitive statement we get on the way itself, vast and boundless as the sky. Let's see how this might help us in our sitting, coming into a comfortable seated position. 

01:01 
See if you can relax, let go, open up all at once. So you sense the space around you, and maybe you sense some space within you as well. Sitting here, in the midst of some kind of spaciousness, we could invite the question into our sitting, is there a way this experience, this consciousness is vast like the sky? 

01:55 
you Just resting with the experience of sitting here like this. Is there a way that my ordinary experience could be vast and boundless? Sitting here in quietness and stillness, could this experience be open, wide open, like the sky? 

05:21 
What is there, right here, that could be vast and open, like the sky? Is there a way that this very mind might be boundless like the great open sky? What is there, right here, that's been here all along, wide open, open like the sky? 

07:53 
you you you Could what I really am myself somehow be a vast openness, open as the sky itself? So see if you can stay open in an open awareness as movement gently returns to the body, and eyes can open and look around as the body is moving, staying in a broad open awareness. 

10:28 
The invitation now is to, now and then through your day, just pause when you can and say to yourself, open like the sky and just see whether somehow that helps to open you up to a broader sense of things, wishing you a fine rest of your day. 
