
00:00 
Hi, and welcome back. So we've got to this point in the koan where the teacher is saying, the way does not belong to knowing or not knowing. He goes on, knowing is delusion, not knowing is a blank consciousness. 

00:17 
Well, we've had other koans that seem to praise not knowing. There's a famous one, not knowing is most intimate. But here Nanchuan is saying, not knowing as a kind of blankness. And meanwhile, knowing is a delusion. 

00:35 
So what are we supposed to do? We can't know it. We can't not know it. And we can't seek it. We can't find it. What are we supposed to do? Perhaps the message of Zen, however counterintuitive it may sound is definitely keep going, but at the same time, basically give up. 

01:00 
So let's have a sit now with these new phrases and see where they may open something up for us. So coming into stillness and rest and ease, you know, letting the body go soft, releasing any holding in the body, releasing jaw, releasing throat, releasing shoulders, releasing hips, relaxing. 

01:53 
Knowing is delusion. Not knowing is a blankness. Neither will help could we really just give up, give in, stop trying. No amount of knowing, no amount of not knowing will help. Can we just let all attempts go? 

04:23 
rather than trying to get anything or know anything can we just be can we be with exactly what experience is right now just be you you What is present before we know anything? What is present before we try to find anything? 

06:52 
What is already here before knowing, before seeking? No seeking, no knowing, and also no not knowing, just this, this. you you you Is there something that can't be measured, that can't be figured out, that can't be found, that can't be known, and yet is here? 

10:26 
Let's see if we can come gently out of the meditation and sustain the same kind of awareness as we simply stay aware and let the body start moving and look around while remaining aware. We've been continuing this exploration of co-hands as a means of support for our practice by following the unfolding story of Zhao Zhou's own path of practice. 

11:00 
And we're going to go a little step further with this in the next sit. Wishing you a very good day. 
