
00:00 
Hi, so welcome to our final sit in this retreat in which we've been exploring the beginnings of young Zhao Zhou's path of practice and awakening, a critical moment as a youth 18 years old, when he has a significant moment of awakening. 

00:22 
So the very last line in his dialogue with his teacher is when the teacher says, the way is vast and boundless like the great empty sky, how could it be a matter of right or wrong? How could it have anything to do with right or wrong? 

00:40 
In a sense, perhaps he's saying, it's beyond getting it or not getting it. It's beyond knowing it or not knowing it. It's another order of experience. So let's come into a comfortable seated position. 

00:58 
And we'll have a chance just to explore this final phrase in this interesting dialogue. Let yourself make any adjustments that you need to, in order to be able to relax. As always, it's great to start by relaxing the body. 

01:23 
So can you let the whole body go limp and relax? If your back is unsupported, it kind of needs to be well balanced so that you can truly relax around it. Face softens, ears at rest and balanced, jaw and throat soft. 

02:00 
Back of neck, also kind of loose and rubbery, and well positioned, so it's happy in the position it's in. And then the whole body follows suit, everything at ease. And then the mind follows suit, the mind at ease. 

02:38 
And we're open to the heart area, to any energies or emotion tone in the chest or belly. Resting, the way is not a matter of right or wrong. You don't get it right, and you can't get it wrong. Just being here. 

03:08 
Like this. We can think of this as less about a kind of moral right and wrong, and more about whether we ourselves can intrinsically be right or wrong. What if, on that level, there's no right, no wrong? 

04:29 
you you When there's no right or wrong, what's left? When there's no getting it or not getting it, what's left? What's it like when there's nothing to get, nothing not to get, no right, no wrong in practice? 

07:56 
you you you What happens when we give up the idea that we have or have not got something? When there's no getting or not getting? What's it like when this is it? Let's stay aware as we bring movement back into the body, moving the upper body, moving fingers and toes, opening up to the space around you, opening the eyes, and staying aware. 

11:31 
Well, congratulations. We've finished our first retreat in this trail on co-hands. We've been exploring this foundational awakening and foundational teaching that caused the awakening of the young Zhao Zhou. 

11:46 
In the next retreat, we'll be going into more of Zhao Zhou's life as he developed as a practitioner and a teacher. Have a great rest of your day. you 
