
00:00 
Hi, welcome to our first meditation session in this new retreat and on this new trail. A quick note first, as we know there are many forms of practice that can help with the different dimensions of meditation. 

00:18 
This includes non-dual experience, you know, there are many methods and approaches that can help bring on glimpses of the non-dual. Of the no-separateness of the no-self. Co-ans are one of those methods, but they're a little unusual perhaps in that they don't really try to engineer us toward a state of non-duality. 

00:49 
Rather, they trust that simply sitting with a little phrase or a story that somehow expresses the non-dual, that is enough, just to sit with it is enough. In other words, sitting with a co-an is as close as any practice gets to what might be called natural awakening. 

01:12 
A natural awakening is something that just happens spontaneously to somebody out of the blue, and we know they do happen. So think of sitting with a co-an as sort of not really trying to get anything in particular. 

01:29 
It's just an invitation to be with our experience here and now, including whatever the little phrase of the co-an may be. So let's come into our comfortable seated position for meditation. Get your body settled, as you'd like it to be, and see if you can just release Let go, relax. 

02:06 
Often it's easiest to start with the body, just let the body, as a whole, relax. The limbs go slack. Shoulders and hips become loose. Whole body coming into rest. So young Zhao Zhou asked his teacher, what is the way? 

02:46 
Let's start with that as an open question. No answer, sought, just the question. What is the way? Feel free to try using this phrase in your mind in different ways. One is to repeat it quite regularly, every few seconds, or perhaps on the out breath. 

04:17 
Another is just now and then, drop it into your sitting. What is the way? The way might mean everything, the whole of experience, or it might mean any particular thing arising in our experience. What is the way? 

05:45 
you Could the way, right now, be the sound of traffic in the distance, or a thought bubbling up in the mind? What is the way? Could the way be the sensations in the fingers resting on the thighs? Or the sound of a little fly buzzing around? 

08:12 
What is the way? How does it feel to ask the question, what is the way? you you Can you rest with the question, really rest with it, what is the way? bringing some movement back into the body, a little gentle sway from side to side, opening or raising the eyes, coming back to the space you're in. 

11:52 
Great! So we've just broken ground on a new period of exploring the support that Cohen's can offer. Have a great rest of your day. 
