
00:00 
Welcome back to another meditation session on the way, and we're going to continue this exploration of the great teacher, Master Zhao Zhou, and his coming to greater clarity about his own life and the process of awakening. 

00:18 
And the next step in this first dialogue and encounter that he's having with his teacher, Nanchuan, is when he asks Nanchuan, should I turn towards the way or not? In other words, should I try to find the way? 

00:36 
And Nanchuan answers, if you turn towards it, you go against it. If you try to find it, you're going the wrong way. We'll sit with this part of now. Let's come into a comfortable seated position. Let your body power down and become soft. 

01:08 
Let your mind relax. Take a load off. Again, this is a time just for you, for you to just be. Should I try to find something special in my meditation? Answer, if you're seeking something, you're going the wrong way. 

01:38 
It's already here, just as you are. you So as we're sitting here, just like this, sensing the body, perhaps hearing sounds, some thoughts arising now and then, perhaps some feeling tone. Whatever the way may be, it's already here, exactly as we are. 

04:08 
How do we sit without seeking? We recognise what's arising right now is enough. Nothing more is needed. you you you What would it be like if this moment was complete, there was nothing more to find, nothing more we need do? 

06:33 
What if there were really nothing else to find? What if our seeking was somehow unnecessary? And it's more a matter of resting, settling, being with what is. What if letting this moment be, just as it is, were enough? 

10:02 
Let's gently bring some movement back into the body, swaying from side to side, moving hands and feet, raising the eyes, coming back into the space that you're in. Great. So we're continuing this journey of ours, which is, in a way, no journey at all, of really coming back to our minds and our experience, just as they are. 

10:37 
Have a lovely rest of your day. 
