
00:00 
Hi, welcome to another meditation session. We're going to continue our journey of exploring Zhao Zhou's first encounter with his teacher, which really helped him on the path of his practice and his training. 

00:16 
He's just asked his teacher if he should be seeking something special the way, and his teacher says, no, if you're trying to seek something, you're going the wrong way. In the last session, we explored letting things be just as they are. 

00:33 
Another way to come at not seeking is to notice when there is an impulse to seek and letting it be. And that's what we'll sit within this meditation. So let's get comfortable. Set yourself up for a session right now. 

00:58 
Hitting the pause button on your day, noticing just being here, not needing to do anything, being still, and letting a kind of quiet settle on you. Should I be seeking the way? If you're seeking it, you're going the wrong way. 

01:37 
So let's just notice when there are traces of seeking, of thinking we should be trying to find something. As we sit here, notice when an impulse to find something is arising in your body or mind. Is it possible that nothing needs to be different? 

03:09 
Notice when there's a sense or an impulse to try to make something different come about, or to try to find something that isn't already here, and let that impulse be present, just be with it. What's it like when there is an impulse to try to find something that's not already here? 

04:36 
And what's it like when there's no impulse like that? What's it like when there's no impulse like that? you When there's an impulse to seek, can we just be with it? And when there's no impulse to seek, can we be with its absence? 

06:57 
Can we be really patient with our impulses to seek? Can we just let them arise as they do? Is there a way we can let any impulse to seek simply be another thread in the tapestry of experience right now? 

08:27 
you you Is it possible that there's really no need to seek anything in our practice? bring some movement into the toes and into the fingers, raising the eyes, moving the upper body in any way that feels good. 

10:45 
Sometimes these pointers and guidance will really land with us and sometimes they won't so much, but either way the most important thing is that we've been doing our sit, our time of stillness and quiet. 

11:01 
Next up we're going to take another pointer from Yamada Cohen on this matter of not seeking, wishing you a fine rest of your day. 
