
00:01 
Welcome back. So we're right in the midst of this mysterious koan about the hermits and the fist and jaojo asking, is anybody in? Let's have another run at this. And once again, I want to suggest that the right way to approach sitting with a koan like this is to notice when there's an impulse to want to understand it and just let that be, but kind of know it's not really going to help that kolans want us to be so simple that there really is no understanding in the way we ordinarily try to understand things. 

00:46 
So it's really an invitation to a kind of utter simplicity. I was the right phrase. Okay, let's come into our seated position. See if you can already be trying to be as it were as simple as your body is. 

01:12 
The body doesn't run around trying to figure things out. It just exists. So become balanced if your back is unsupported and really yield to the support if your back is being supported. And either way, let the body become soft, soft and limp, limp and slack. 

01:46 
Slack and loose. you Let awareness kind of emerge soon. secretly out of your stillness and the ease in your body. And again, the first point here is, is anybody in? Don't seek an answer, just see what effect that question has on your meditation. 

02:31 
Is anybody in? Is there a way we can just trust the language, the phrases of these koans? Not have to do anything about them, just trust them. Is anybody in? What if this is unlike any question asked before? 

04:58 
It's not looking for an answer. Is anybody in? you I sometimes think coins are like open-ended questions, questions that have no end. Is anybody in? Is there a way of letting the phrase, the question, have a kind of soft impact on you, but it's not seeking an answer? 

07:33 
Anybody in? Resting in stillness, allowing the little question to drop like a pebble into the still pool of the mind, is anybody in? you What if there is no answer? Is anybody in? Let's stay aware as we bring the meditation to a close, so the period of sitting may be ended, but the period of awareness is not. 

11:12 
There's no need for it to. As you bring movement into the body and look around, you can stay completely aware. A reminder, we're using these koans as a support for our practice, a way of enriching our practice, giving us something that we can sort of rely on and that invite us actually to do less. 

11:39 
Next up, we'll be taking a look at the final part of this koan. Have a great rest of your day. 
