
00:00 
Hi. There's a story that when Zhao Zhou was wandering around the middle kingdom of China on his pilgrimage, he visited two hermits. And to both of them, in turn, he asked, is anybody in? And both of them simply raised their fist by way of response. 

00:22 
And one of them he rather disparaged and criticized, and the other one he praised and vowed to. But they both did exactly the same thing. This has become a well-known Cohen in Zen, the raising of the fist, and one getting criticized and one getting praised. 

00:45 
We're going to be sitting with these interactions in our session. Okay. Let's come into our meditation posture. Set yourself up. Become still. And release the body. Let it soften any way it needs to. 

01:18 
Let yourself settle in. Start to listen. And let awareness kind of switch on. you Jojo visits a hermit. He sees him sitting in his hut and he says, Anybody in? Anybody in? Let's start with this question. 

02:06 
Anybody in? just see what happens when you ask this question in your mind. Is anybody in? Is anybody in? The hermit held up their fist, they just held up one fist. Let's sit with that now. you you We're not trying to figure anything out at all. 

05:38 
There's no riddle here. Just a fist. Question. Is anybody in? Response. A fist held up. Can we really let go of all conceptual thinking and exploration? Just anybody in, a fist goes up. you you Can we be simple? 

09:14 
Is anybody in? A fist held up. let's again try to stay aware as we bring the meditation period to a close so raising the eyes looking around and moving the body but staying aware okay so we're into this next koan from joshua's wandering life the hermits and the fists being held up i want to just say if you feel you're not really understanding this at all that's probably exactly right we can let go of any attempt to understand and learn to just be with a koan in some ways it's a practice of utmost simplicity wishing you a fine rest of your day 
