
00:00 
Welcome back. At some point in Zhao Zhou's wondering, he came to the monastery of a master called Guishan, who had a large and thriving student body. While he was there, he heard a student ask a question of Guishan, which was basically, what is Zen? 

00:19 
What is Zen really all about? Guishan's response was to say, bring me that chair. And apparently Zhao Zhou really appreciated rather odd response and said, in sharing the teaching with others, one must always go to the heart of the matter, just like that. 

00:39 
The heart of the matter being not ideas, not concepts about practice and about awakening, but instead the very stuff of this world, the fabric of this moment here and now. In Zen, the deepest teaching is not actually found in words, it's in this life itself. 

00:57 
So let's sit with this moment in this session. Coming into stillness, coming into quiet, becoming present, becoming aware, you and finding a certain kind of rest, an ease, a presence. What is Zen all about? 

01:50 
What is practice all about? What is the path of discovery all about? Bring me that chair. What is the heart of the matter? What is our journey's end, so to speak? Bring me that chair. Well, what about the chair you're sitting on right now? 

04:19 
What about if this very chair you're sitting on, this very moment of sitting, is the heart of the matter? you you Can we let go of grand ideas about practice, awakening, enlightenment, great death, and other ideas we might have, instead, just sitting on this chair? 

06:50 
Is there a way we can recognize this very moment for what it is, and really recognize just sitting here on this seat? The heart of the matter, bring me that chair. Can we let go of trying to understand it and just be sitting here on this seat? 

08:20 
you you What is awakening? Bring me the chair. Recognize the chair. Recognize sitting. Let's stay aware as we come out of the meditation period, opening or raising the eyes, moving the body, perhaps stretching a little, but staying aware throughout. 

10:46 
Okay, we've been exploring some of the encounters Jojo had while he was wondering and seeing what he could learn from them and how he may have had his own style of teaching formed by them when the time came. 

11:02 
I want to invite you to now and then, through your day, just ask yourself, what is present right now? What's here right now? Have a lovely rest of your day. 
