
00:00 
Welcome back to another sit exploring the weird and wonderful world of Jiaozhou. So we're still in his encounter with these two hermits. He asks them, is anybody in? They each, in their turn on separate occasions, this is, by the way, they each put up a fist into the air. 

00:23 
And one of them he praises, the other one he criticizes. And we're going to sit with that part of the koan right now, the praise and the blame. And by the way, praise and blame are considered two of the eight wins. 

00:40 
The others are pleasure and pain, gain and loss, good name and bad name. Eight wins that blow through our human lives. So let's come into a comfortable seated position. Let yourself arrive. Come into your body, as it were. 

01:14 
Start to inhabit your body. And see if your body is ready to be at rest. Grounded. Centered. Balanced. At ease. So one hermit puts up their fist and Jiaozhou appreciates it and bows to them. The other one puts up their fist in just the same way. 

02:05 
And Jiaozhou criticizes them, says their practice is shallow. But they both did the same thing. Two wins, the wind of praise and the wind of blame or criticism. We all like praise, and we all tend to dislike being put down or criticized. 

03:33 
What's the invitation here? Praise and blame. Could it be that Zhao Zhou is checking how they respond to praise and to blame? Are they moved by them, gusted about by those winds? Or are they unmoved? 

04:54 
you you Is Jaujo perhaps checking himself that he can equanimously issue praise and criticism and be unmoved himself either way? Are we ourselves able to sit with praise and criticism equally and be at peace regardless, open to either, open for the wind to blow through, whatever wind it may be? 

08:28 
A gust of praise, a gust of a put-down. Can they blow through without there being anything for them to catch on? Wide open. you Is it possible that praise and criticism are no more than a wind, no more substantial than a breeze? 

10:56 
Let's see if we can stay aware as we gently exit this period of meditation, bringing movement back into the body, looking around, breathing in, breathing out, and staying aware. So we're seeing how koans can explore multiple dimensions of practice, and at this point in this koan, there seems to be some teaching about preference, about like and dislike, and getting what we want or what we don't want, 

11:31 
and really being open to all of it. In the next koan, we're going to see Jiaozhou getting a kind of put down, and see how he responds. Have a great rest of your day. 
