
00:00 
Hi, so we're moving now into our second retreat on this great practitioner Zhao Zhou. So having seen his first awakening, and the process that triggered that in his dialogue back and forth with his teacher Nanchuan, we're now going to track the long arc of his life of practice. 

00:23 
He spent 40 years with this great teacher, Nanchuan, and then he spent 20 years wandering on a Zen-style pilgrimage, which means aimlessly, without any particular intention, just traveling very openly, following as the phrase goes, where the wind takes him. 

00:48 
This period of Chinese history was one very rich in practice. There were a lot of people interested in awakening, in meditation, in getting to understand what this very life actually is, and how to give oneself to it most wholeheartedly and thoroughly. 

01:11 
Zhao Zhou seems to have considered this a critical phase of his practice and development, actually. It's said that when he set out, he declared that if he met a 100-year-old person who wanted to learn from him, he would freely teach them. 

01:28 
And if he met a 7-year-old child who could teach him, he would humbly receive their guidance. And it was after this period that he settled down in a little run-down temple and spent the next 40 years sharing his realizations with others. 

01:50 
Actually, he takes his name from the town where he did settle down. It was the town of Zhao Zhou, which is still famous today for an ancient stone bridge. that has been standing for possibly 3,000 years. 

02:04 
Many of the great Zen practitioners that we know about are simply named after where they lived. Often it's a mountain that they lived on, or a cliff, or a lake nearby that they took their name from. He's said to have had 18 great awakenings in the course of his life. 

02:25 
We don't know the details of where and when they all happened, but we can very much see the fruit of them in the many stories and dialogues that have come down from his life. In this retreat, we're going to sit with a number of different koans that come out of this second phase of Zhao Zhou's life when he was wandering around China. 

02:52 
Just a quick through the mind, either repeatedly or now and again, or you can just think about the scenario and again run the phrase through your mind and then just drop it and sit with open awareness, wide open to sense experiences. 

03:20 
And actually the first two sits we're going to do will be tastes of that kind of openness before we really dive into the koans. See you in the first meditation. 
