
00:00 
Hi. In this session, we're going to look at another incident from the part of Josu's life when he's wondering on this pilgrimage of a kind of aimlessness and a great openness, ready to learn and ready to share, wherever he goes. 

00:18 
So he comes to a master, a teacher, called Totsu, and he asks him, how is it when someone has died the great death and come back to life? This needs just a little explanation. The term great death refers to a very thoroughgoing awakening experience, which often tends to kind of eliminate the need for further searching. 

00:48 
Jojo by now has surely been through that himself, but the teacher Totsu responds, I don't allow prowling about in the night come back in the daylight. He really sort of checks Jojo, doesn't really like that question. 

01:06 
We can sit with both the question and the response. So let's get settled. Allow yourself a moment to arrive, to recognize that you've, as it were, stepped aside from the ordinary stream of daily activities. 

01:30 
you Just rest. Be still. And ya arrive. So Jiajou is wandering through the valleys and plains and mountains, comes to Totsu and asks, what about when someone has died the great death and come back to life? 

02:03 
As we sit we can ask, what is coming back to life? What is being alive? What is coming back to life? Totsu says I don't allow prowling about in the night. Don't talk about great death. Don't even talk about awakening. 

04:27 
Come back in the daylight. What is this daylight? How is it to sit with the phrase come back in the daylight? you you Perhaps totsu means no ideas about practice, no thoughts of awakening or delusion. 

05:47 
Just this. Come back in the daylight. Don't prowl about in the night. Don't be caught in ideas and conceptual constructions around practice. Come back to the daylight. We can imagine Joshu may have let this instruction in, may have really been grateful for a little correction. 

08:16 
Come back in the daylight. you you No night-time prowling, no talk of great death, great enlightenment. Just come back in the daylight. Again, let's see if we can maintain awareness as we emerge from our meditation. 

10:36 
So, raising the eyes, bringing movement into the body. Inhale, exhale, but staying aware. I feel it's instructive for us to know that even a great practitioner like Zhao Zhou, who's been practicing at this point for 40 or 50 years, is really open to having himself kind of checked and perhaps corrected and opened up further by another teacher. 

11:08 
That kind of readiness to be further instructed is a fruit of his practice, actually. Wishing you a great rest of your day. 
