
00:00 
Hi, there are actually many ways to sit with a koan. They certainly can be baffling and they certainly can be frustrating because we think, well, what on earth is this strange person saying this strange thing for and how could it be part of a serious practice? 

00:19 
The main point in whatever manner we choose to work with a koan is to let go of trying to understand it with our ordinary mind and then a different sense of it can sometimes emerge. So I want to have another run at this koan, what's the heart of the matter, answer, bring me that chair, and let's see if we can let that phrase be just the phrase it is and not try to do anything with it except sit with it and let it be itself. 

00:59 
So coming into a comfortable seated position on whatever chair or seat we're on. Can you let the body kind of flush out all tension, holding, let it become a field of openness, restfulness, ease? Let's see if we can start with an assumption that all we could ever realize or know or understand or awaken to is already here. 

01:50 
So the monk asks what is the heart of the matter and the teacher answers, bring me the chair. So the invitation now is just run that little phrase through your mind, now and then, bring me the chair. 

03:09 
Koans seem to like us being very simple. Just the phrase, bring me that chair. What would it be like if you really didn't have to do anything special with this phrase? Can we just let the phrase be exactly what it is? 

04:31 
Bring me that chair. you you you You can notice, if you feel some resistance, some frustration to sitting with this phrase, be with that frustration or tension or resistance. Let it be part of your experience and gently repeat the phrase. 

05:54 
Bring me the chair or bring me that chair. If a koan does bring up a difficult feeling such as frustration, it may be that there's something helpful going on and that it's a good thing. We can just sit with that sensation of frustration in the body and gently now and then repeat the phrase, bring me the chair. 

08:23 
Bring me the chair, nothing more, just bring me the chair. you What if there's really nothing to get? It's just bring me the chair. Once again seeing if we can stay aware, as we come out of the meditation body starts to move, eyes open or rise up and we can look around staying aware. 

11:00 
And this same awareness we can actually carry through our day or touch back into repeatedly, wishing you well through the rest of your day. 
