
00:00 
Welcome to our first sit in this new retreat on the ongoing unfolding of Zhao Zhou's life beyond his initial training with his teacher Dan Zhuang. So in this first sit we're going to explore what a wandering pilgrimage might really be and how that might apply to us in our life. 

00:25 
And then they think of this as a period, a time of life when we're not looking for anything. We're just wandering in the world without a stated goal, without any intention other than to be as it were taught by life itself. 

00:51 
So let's come into a comfortable seated position and maybe we can just recognize a little bit right now how much we may be open to this very moment, showing itself to us as it is without our having preconceived notions about how it should be. 

01:22 
That's the spirit of Zen pilgrimage. It's not going to a known destination, it's experiencing just exactly where we are without preconceptions. So resting here open to all that arises in awareness as we sit still, open awareness. 

02:55 
So with our awareness open we simply notice Whatever is arising in our experience, could be thinking, could be a motion tone, could be sounds, could be body sensations, could be some amount of sight, of seeing. 

03:19 
Just be open and aware. Feel free to try labeling responsibly, in other words, label in response to what arises. You might, for example, just say sound or hearing, if you've been aware of a sound, or body, if you've been aware of a body sensation, or thinking, if a thought has been present. 

04:47 
Go to www.beadaholique.com for all of your beading supplies needs! you So, when it feels helpful, try that kind of labelling in response to what you're experiencing. And sometimes you may find you can just sit. 

06:01 
without any labelling, and rest in a wide-open awareness, receiving sense experience. Again, label as you feel you need to and when you don't need to, just freely let it go and rest in receptive, open awareness. 

07:31 
you you Can we let go of any need for our experience to be a certain way? We're really just open. Open and aware. letting reality show itself, just as it is. So, can we stay in this open awareness as we start to bring movement back into the body? 

10:56 
As we look around? As we move? As we stretch, maybe, and take a deeper inhale and exhale, staying aware? Great, so we've just got going on the further arc of Jaojo's life with the many teachings that spin off from it that we'll be exploring some of. 

11:21 
Have a great rest of your day. 
