
00:00 
Hi, and welcome back. I do want to say if you're finding these choirs baffling and not very fruitful as you sit with them, I really encourage you to try to be okay with that, to not get stressed out, to just let the little phrase run through your mind for a while and then put it aside if you'd prefer and just sit with being present to all the sense experience that's arising in your awareness. 

00:33 
And then perhaps try the little phrase one more time and see how it is. So here's another dialogue with Jojo. A student asks, what is my essence? And he answers, the tree sways, the bird flies about, the fish leaps, the water is muddy. 

00:58 
So these are all essences, natures of things in the world. And that's his answer to the question, what is my essence? So we'll just try each of these little phrases on and see how they land. Coming into comfortable seated meditation posture. 

01:21 
Release. Let go of any holding. Let the body be at peace. If there are tensions or energies stirring in the body or perhaps momentum from your day, can you allow them? Is there a peace you already have, a patience, a welcoming side to your own nature that can let them be present? 

02:00 
and not be disturbed by them, but hold them. you Tasting what it's like to be still. Resting. The question comes, what is my essence? And the answer, the tree sways. Just that. The tree sways. Is it possible the tree is part of the same original nature that you yourself also are? 

03:49 
Who am I? What is my essence? The tree sways. What is my essence? The tree sways, the bird flies about. The student has asked about themself. Jojo answers with other things. The tree sways, the bird flies about. 

05:18 
you Again, who am I? The tree sways, the bird flies about. What's that got to do with me? The tree sways, the bird flies about. Who really am I? What is my true, awakened nature? The fish leaps, the water is muddy. 

08:39 
Is it possible that the leaping fish and the muddy water are somehow part of me myself? All we need to do is rest with the phrases, the fish leaps, the water is muddy. you you What is my essence? The tree sways, the bird flies, the fish leaps, the water is muddy. 

11:06 
Let's gently bring movement back into the body, look around, take a deeper inhale and exhale, and meanwhile stay aware. I encourage you to try out one or more of these little phrases in the course of your day. 

11:29 
Just pause for a micro moment and say one of the phrases and see if it has some effect on your state of mind before carrying on with your day. Wishing you well. 
