
00:00 
Hi, welcome back. Quick reminder, the Chinese teacher Zhao Zhou was asked, how far is it from your town, this town, which is also called Zhao Zhou, to the capital city? And he said, it's 300 miles. He was then asked, how far is it from the capital city to this town, Zhao Zhou? 

00:22 
And he said, it's no distance at all. So we're exploring how this baffling statement might somehow shed some light on our own experience here and now. And we'll have another sit with it right now. So let's come into our comfortable seated position for meditation. 

00:45 
And I'll just let you do your own little check-in with yourself and your own settling down. you So, as we're arriving in our meditation, we can just bring some of these words of Jojo's to mind and really see if we can run them through our minds without trying to understand anything, just letting the words be what they are. 

01:23 
How far is it from here to the capital city? It's 300 miles. It's 300 miles. you Again, the invitation here is to just repeat this little phrase silently in your own mind, or drop it in now and again. 

02:45 
How far is it from here to the capital? It's 300 miles. You can use both the question and the answer, or just the answer. Then we can try the next question. How far is it from the capital to here? It's no distance. 

05:03 
Once again, can you abandon all efforts, attempts to understand, and just let the phrases be what they are? It's 300 miles, it's no distance. you you you What would it be like if we could trust that these strange little phrases from early Zen somehow fertilize our practice? 

06:32 
How far is it? It's 300 miles. It's no distance. What if there's really nothing to get here. There's just these phrases. Let yourself rest with them. How far is it? It's 300 miles. How far is it? It's no distance. 

08:55 
300 miles, no miles, far away, right here, how can both be true? you Once again, let's stay aware as we exit the meditation. Let's see if in a way there is no exiting the meditation. We're just bringing movement in. 

10:21 
We're just looking around more, but we stay just as aware. Once again, I do know that sometimes this kind of koan work can be pretty baffling, and I encourage you not to mind that. too much. If you can just stick with it, in time you may get really unexpected glimpses of another way of seeing things. 

10:46 
Meanwhile, I wish you a fine rest of your day. 
