
00:00 
Welcome to another meditation with the great teacher, Master Zhao Zhou. We're now into his teaching years, the 40 years he taught, while living in this sort of tumbled down temple in a small, far away town. 

00:15 
We're going to notice as he teaches, he often just reaches for something in the immediate vicinity as the means of teaching. And that's very much the case in this next koan we're going to look at, which has come down as Zhao Zhou's wash your bowls. 

00:32 
A young monk has just come to the temple and asks for instruction. It happens to be a meal time, and Zhao Zhou asks, have you eaten your rice gruel yet? And he replies, yes, I have. And then Zhao Zhou says, then wash your bowls. 

00:51 
That's the koan. So let's sit with it. Come into your comfortable, seated position, ready for meditation. And is there a way, right away, you can just drop in? Be present. Be here. Aware. Settled. And simple. 

01:22 
So we're going to work with these phrases from the koan. Have you eaten your rice gruel yet? Yes, I have. Let's start with those two. Just run them through your mind either now and then, or somewhat more consistently. 

01:45 
Just see what happens to your sitting as you do. you Now, we can try just the first phrase and simplify it to have you eat in your rice. What we're looking for is whether just repeating that phrase in our mind has an effect on our meditation. 

03:11 
Have you eaten your rice? Goans invite or speak from a great simplicity. Have you eaten your rice? you you you Goans, invite us to really slow down and stop trying to do or achieve or attain anything. 

05:34 
Have you eaten your rice? Yes I have. Then wash your bowls. We're sitting still, quiet, aware, and now and then, or repeatedly, we run the phrase through our mind, then wash your balls. If you encounter any resistance to this practice or to the koan, just back off for a bit, be with that resistance, let it really show itself, and when you're ready, just try repeating the phrase once. 

08:16 
you then wash your bowls just that then wash your bowls Let's stay aware as we raise our eyes, as we bring movement into the body, wiggle fingers and toes, staying aware. Okay, an invitation now is to bring this phrase into your day. 

10:50 
Now and then, just say to yourself, wash your bowls. Nothing more, and carry on with your day. Enjoy. 
