
00:00 
Welcome. I want to recall us to the moment when Zhao Zhou is wondering and meets the great teacher Guishan and sees him saying to a student, always come to the heart of the matter. Bring me that chair. 

00:20 
Apparently, it had quite an impact on Zhao Zhou. When he himself later became a teacher, he would refer back to it. Always come into the heart of the matter. There's a time when he does exactly that, when a student asks him some grand question about awakening and the purposes of Zen practice and who and what he himself really is, and Zhao Zhou answers, the oak tree there in the garden. 

00:47 
Who really am I? What is awakened nature? Answer, the oak tree out there in the garden. So we're going to pick this up now as a phrase we can use in meditation. And again, just see what kind of effect the phrase itself has on our sitting. 

01:09 
So I invite you to come into a comfortable position, get balanced, and let the whole body soften. Feel the whole body sort of melting, coming into ease, restfulness, peace, let the mind settle. And maybe in a way, the mind also can expand, become a bit broader and more open. 

02:05 
you What will I realise when I awaken? The Oak Tree. There, outside, in the garden. Is there a way that the ordinary things of this world, of our life, are showing us our awakened nature? The Oak Tree, out in the garden How could a tree outside be somehow the heart of our lives, where it's arising, presenting itself in the one awake awareness we already have, the oak tree out in the garden? 

04:59 
you Again, letting your body relax, letting the whole system of your body, mind and heart settle. The Ugtree, there in the garden. Can we rest into a great simplicity? Just the oak tree in the garden. 

08:16 
What if there's really not much to it? It's simple. It's kind of plain. It's already here. The oak tree in the garden. you you you You, yourself, your own ordinary experience, already contains all we might seek. 

09:42 
The Oak Tree, in the Garden. once again staying aware as we gently bring ourselves out of meditation. So we're going to raise the eyes and stay aware. We're going to let the body move and stay aware. 

11:04 
And in time we'll learn to stay with this awareness basically all through our days. Sometimes it seems that the less we try to get something from a koan, the more we just rest with it, the more it helps us. 

11:22 
There is perhaps a process of coming to trust these little phrases more as we go along. And for many, this too seems to happen kind of just by itself. Have a great rest of your day. 
