
00:00 
Hi, welcome to our first sit in this new retreat where we're going to be exploring some of the Koans by means of which Zhao Zhou tried to share the world he'd come to know so well through his at that point 60 years of training. 

00:19 
I want to start with a question and answer where a student asked him how far is it from Zhao Zhou to the capital city Chang'an and Zhao Zhou answered it's 300 miles then the student asked how far is it from the capital city Chang'an to the town of Zhao Zhou and Zhao Zhou said no distance at all how far is it from here to there 300 miles how far is it from there to here no distance at all let's sit with this and see if we can just enjoy it without straining too hard to make sense of it it does make a kind of sense but only from the perspective of you probably know what I'm going to say the perspective of the experience of boundlessness of non-duality but even without a taste of that experience I believe the Koan can really help us settle deeper into our sitting so let's come into a comfortable seated position and right away let's just see how we're doing is there any tension in the body can we meet it with a a certain warmth or tenderness if there is is there any tension showing up in the mind. 

02:03 
And can we meet that with a welcoming warmth? Can we really take a moment to allow ourselves to be as we are? Really that's okay. Meditation always begins with how we are, where we are, just as we are. 

02:37 
Arguably it never leaves that actually. So the message is there's no need to be different. Meditation will meet us just as we are. So let's... Start to listen and let's sense the body and release into stillness. 

04:24 
Now, as you're sitting here, can you be aware of the wall in one direction, across from you, in the room you're in? And if you're sitting in some other kind of space, just be aware of an object a little distance away from you. 

04:43 
So you're just sensing this body here, and that object some distance away from you. you Is there a way you can just release your awareness and allow it to be larger so that it would include both your body and the object some distance away. 

07:08 
Sense the space between you and the object. Is it possible that that space is part of the same awareness that you might identify as your own? you you If you're finding this interesting, please carry on. 

08:31 
If not, try the same exercise with an object to the other side of you. Sense the space between you and this other object. Is it possible that space is part of the same awareness with which you sense it? 

09:55 
Again, if this exercise is interesting, just carry on, and if not so much, then try it again with an object behind you. Sense the object, sense the space between you and it. Is it possible that space is part of your very own awareness? 

11:21 
remaining aware, as we open or raise the eyes, to stay aware, now bring movement into the body, staying aware, okay, we will get more chances to do this kind of exercise, whether you enjoyed it or found it baffling, next up we're going to look more directly at the 300 miles that Zhao Zhi talked about. 

11:52 
Have a great rest of your day. 
