
00:00 
Welcome back. One more teaching of Master Zhao Zhou. The door of every house leads to the capital city Chang'an. Or, slightly shorter, the door of every house leads to the capital. Open any door of any house, and you're in the capital city. 

00:24 
What does this mean? Well, it might mean that absolutely every sense experience we ever have is already our own awakened nature. Whether it's something we see, something we hear, something we touch, something we think, something we sense in the body, an emotion we have. 

00:45 
What if all of them are our own true, awakened nature showing itself? Let's just try this phrase on for size, and see if it happens to stir up something helpful. So coming into our comfortable meditation posture, and once again, can you imagine that you're a rag doll hanging from a hook and just dangling? 

01:21 
So your whole body is softening and loosening and quite limp, and you can really just rest here like this. See, if your awareness sort of shifts gear, it becomes a little more open and soft and present. 

02:00 
The door of every house leads to the capital. Open any door, and you're right here in the capital. If you're feeling any stress or unease, what if that is also the capital? What if that is your awakened nature? 

03:28 
Or perhaps you're hearing a sound in the soundscape. Could that also be the awakened nature? Once again, we mostly just sit with the phrase, now and again, repeating it in our minds. And that's definitely enough. 

04:49 
The door of every house leads to the capital. you Is there a way you can allow the phrase to calm you down, to carry you into a place of peace? The door of every house leads to the capital. What if every last kind of sense experience that arises is your own awake nature? 

07:23 
The door of every house leads to the capital. No need to be trying for anything. See how much you can simply let the little phrase drop into the pool of your meditation, and watch whatever subtle ripples may form. 

08:52 
you In the last part of this sit, let's just sit in silence. Is there a way you can maintain a sense of silence as you bring movement back into your body? Staying silent within as you look about. And let this silence be something a little bit precious that you can touch in with now and again in the course of your day. 

11:20 
So we've really been doing quite a bit of somewhat intense koan work as we've been tracking Jaujo's remarkable life. Not only did he live to the age of 120, he also had a deep lasting impact on the history of Zen still felt to this very day. 

11:40 
We're going to leave him here. Next up, a quiet sit. See you there and meanwhile wishing you a peaceful rest of your day. 
