
00:00 
Hi, so welcome to our new retreat, which is the last one actually that we'll be having on Zhao Zhou in this trail. So, Zhao Zhou led this iconic life, epic life, it's sort of the perfect life of deep Dharma training, Buddhist training, Zen training, and then expressing that Zen training in the way he lived. 

00:25 
He began pretty young and had some struggles trying to find his way in and had some experiences of glimpses of this Buddha nature, this original nature, this all-encompassing field within which all our experience is arising, of which all our experience is made. 

00:46 
And it took some time, 40 years actually, for him to get really super stable with it, thoroughly integrate it into the way that he lived. And that was all happening under the guidance of this great, a then famous master Nan Chuan, who was sort of renowned in Tang dynasty China. 

01:06 
This is all in the 9th century, by the way, as a great teacher of the Chinese form of Buddhism, known as Chan or Zen in Japanese parlance. Then after those 40 years of training at the age of 60, he started to wonder for 20 years with that spirit of being open to learning from anybody and willing to share with anybody, no matter if it was seniors or juniors in either direction. 

01:36 
And then finally, at the age of 80, he settles down in this little town called Zhao Zhou, hence he takes the name of Zhao Zhou, the place where he lives. And here's the temple that somehow falls to him is a very rundown old small place. 

01:53 
It never has more than perhaps a dozen or most two dozen students living there with him. him. And this was at a time when some of these training centers in China for Zen would have 1500 or 2000 monks and nuns living there. 

02:10 
So he's really an ambitious old man, he's really found a piece that needs nothing basically. And he's just sharing kind of out of the goodness of his heart, he wants to share the truth, the reality that he's found, which is rather contradictory to the way most of us ordinarily experience things. 

02:35 
Perhaps that's not quite right, it doesn't contradict it, but it opens up an entirely different dimension of this very moment that has always been here, that is here right now. And when that has opened up in us, when we're aware of it, we see life in a very different way. 

02:52 
And we come toward life as it were, we want to live our life in a very different way because we're we're already fulfilled. We feel a great appreciation for any experience arising at all, and somehow we want to do what we can to compassionately treat and tend, and also, yeah, appreciate the world and the many beings we find ourselves among. 

03:20 
So we're going to look at some koans now, where in his enigmatic way he's trying to share just that. And one final word here about koans, if you can hold or bear in mind just one thing, it's that koans are speaking from the realization of a dimension of our experience where everything is just what it is, and at the same time it's all one thing. 

03:50 
And we too are that one thing. And what that one thing is, is variously denoted as a single all-inclusive awareness, as emptiness, as boundless openness, as unnameable, because the language we have doesn't know how to cope with it. 

04:12 
So baffling as koans may be, think of each one as a little portal, a little gateway, a little door to the boundlessness of your own nature that's already here. Okay, see you in the first sip. 
