
00:00 
Hi, welcome back. In this final session of this retreat, we are going to enjoy what I think will be a well-earned rest. No co-ans, just quiet sitting with a few gentle reminders and prompts from me. The theory here is that having done quite a bit of co-ann work recently, we may find there actually is somehow more space in our system than we might have realized. 

00:30 
Let's start out straight away, so coming into your comfortable seated position. If the body is free to, I encourage you to sway a little bit from side to side, and letting yourself slow down and reduce the arcs of movement like a pendulum, swaying from side to side, its movement's getting smaller and smaller, and eventually coming to rest. 

01:11 
And just sense the still point. Let the whole body relax. you Let the chest give way, let the belly give way, let the whole body be at ease, resting. And notice how when the body comes in to rest, quite commonly the mind seems to partake of that rest as well. 

02:55 
No need to be in any special state. or seeking anything special, but really just resting. And we might notice thoughts come and go, feelings might arise, we'll hear sounds now and then and sense the body. 

03:15 
It's all fine. We rest with it all. Can we let this experience now, just like this, be enough? you you Whatever may be arising, let it be. Rest with it. being at rest in the midst of experience, in the midst of awareness. 

06:44 
Resting. There's an invitation to really settle into the quiet. Rest in the silence. Nothing to do, nothing to say, nothing to ponder, resting. Whatever restful awareness you may have touched, can you maintain it as we're bringing movement back into the body, as we're coming out of meditation? 

10:17 
Look around and stay aware. Great. Now can you see how much you can carry this same awareness into the rest of your day? Congratulations on finishing another retreat and next up we'll be touching in with one of the great so-called lifetime koans. 

10:40 
These are koans that we can use throughout our lives and will always be relevant and can never be exhausted. Congratulations again and have a lovely rest of your day. 
