
00:00 
Hi, I want to just say a quick word on koans. The theory behind them is something like this. There's an original nature, sometimes called Buddha nature, that all things have and are, including us, and all things share it. 

00:18 
So when we discover our own Buddha nature, we discover the Buddha nature of all things. And Buddha nature, by the way, simply means awakened nature. So to awaken is to discover this awakened world or awakened nature that all things participate in. 

00:36 
So a koan is simply trying to jog us to notice that by means of the contents of the koan, which is why they're very often about ordinary things, such as rice and bowls. The critical point is that we already have that awakened nature and are it. 

00:56 
That's why effort is beside the point. So the easier we are with a koan, the more we can learn to rest with it, the more effective and enjoyable it might be. So let's once again get set up for meditation. 

01:15 
Let your body slacken. Let your body soften. Let your mind also slow down and soften. Perhaps become a bit more open, clear, and restful. So the young student asks for guidance and the teacher says, have you eaten your rice yet? 

02:01 
Student says, yes. Teacher says, then wash your bowls. That's the guidance. Can it really be this simple? Have you finished your lunch? Yes. So wash your bowls. Really see if you can be in a restful, quiet state, aware of the space around you. 

03:37 
And into the quiet, we drop the little phrase, wash your bowls. There's also a way that the periodic repetition of the phrase can carry us into a very calm state of absorption. Wash your bowls. you You're allowed to settle or sink into a deeper state of flow or absorption, and to be carried thereby wash your bowls. 

07:17 
Can we become so quiet, so settled, that it's as if there's nothing else in the world? Except this phrase, wash your bowls. Just wash your bowls, so simple, so clear, just wash your bowls. Nothing but wash your balls. 

10:45 
stay aware, and into that awareness allow movement of the body to arise. Let yourself be seeing more of the room or space that you're in, and staying aware. So, if you're finding this koan work a bit frustrating, you have my sympathy. 

11:07 
I've been there too, but what I've seen time and again is that unexpectedly, suddenly students who consistently sit with koans will have a shift where all of a sudden it becomes deeply enjoyable. So, it's worth persevering. 

11:28 
Have a great rest of your day. 
