
00:00 
Welcome, one more sip with Jojo's bowls. There may be a subtext hidden in this koan, which is that when Jojo asks the student, have you eaten your rice gruel yet? It could be a kind of metaphorical way of asking, has he realized his own awakened nature? 

00:22 
And when the student says yes, Jojo then says, so wash your bowls, meaning kind of return to ordinary life. Realize that your awakened nature is present in everything you do and now live it out in your ordinary days. 

00:41 
But in a way, whether that subtext is there or not doesn't really matter. The message is the same. It's this ordinary life that is the field of our awakening. So let's come into a comfortable seated position. 

01:01 
Allow your body a chance to settle in and let your mind recognize that this is now a time of quiet and stillness that we're entering into and that whatever's going on in our bodies and minds is welcome. 

01:30 
The stillness is able to hold it and embrace it might be present for us. Gradually letting the body soften, jaw softens, chest and belly soften. Notice that you'll probably automatically start to listen. 

02:00 
Thanks for watching! and feel the space around you. Simply wash your bowls. Let's try that phrase right now and see what effect it has. Wash your bowls. Now try the full exchange. Have you had your rice? 

03:35 
Yes. Then wash your bowls. If one part of the exchange seems to have more of an effect for you, just stay with that. Have you finished your rice? Or then wash your bowls? you you you There is a way that either of the phrases can carry us into a simple quiet. 

07:03 
If you find you are tasting a kind of quiet simplicity, you could see what it's like to back off a bit on the phrases and just be with that quiet. Simple, quiet practice you you you Really, nothing to it, just have you had your rice, then wash your bowls. 

10:34 
See if you can remain aware as you bring some subtle movement back into the body. Take an inhale and an exhale. Look around, staying aware. A quick reminder on why we're doing this practice. Koans can support our passage into deeper meditative states. 

11:02 
They can support us in our practice in ways we recognize as well as some ways we won't recognize, where they're tilling the soil of our psyches. Have a great rest of your day. 
