
00:00 
Welcome back to another meditation with this phrase, what is this, the lifetime koan of some schools of Zen. One of the beautiful things about it is that the question what is this can be applied to whatever is arising in our experience. 

00:23 
Whatever is most salient, what is this can be applied to that. Something that we may start to detect in time is that all of our experience is absolutely saturated with awareness. There is actually no experience that doesn't arise in conjunction with awareness. 

00:47 
It's awareness that recognizes all of our sense experience. In this it will be using the koan what is this to explore that awareness side a bit more. So get settled, get balanced, relaxed, let the jaw go, let the whole body go, settling in, settling down. 

01:26 
Coming into presence, let the mind rest. What is this, this experience right now? What is this? you Let's see if we can notice the ever flowing stream of sensations of experience. arising as we we sit here in stillness Is it possible to notice that the whole field of experience is totally permeated with awareness? 

04:16 
Is it even possible to separate experience from awareness? What is this? you you you Sensing the soundscape, sensing the field of body sensations, sometimes thoughts, sometimes feelings. What is it that senses all this? 

05:41 
What is this? If awareness is always present to our experience, what actually is it? And where is it? And where does it end? What is awareness? What is this? This experience right now, being aware, noticing, sense experiences, what is all this? 

08:23 
you What is it to be aware? What is being aware? What is this? Can we somehow keep the question alive as we bring movement back into the body? What is this body? What is this moving? Looking around the space? 

10:43 
What is this? Coming out of meditation? What is this? What is this? Once again, I do want to reiterate that the most important thing in any meditation practice is the being still and quiet itself. Anything above and beyond that is effectively a bonus. 

11:10 
So if you're finding these koan practices helpful, that's great. And if not, please remember the sitting itself is what really matters. Wishing you well. 
