
00:00 
Hi. So the beauty of this simple koan, what is this, is that it's always bringing us back to our immediate experience at any given time, no matter what that experience is. And actually, the contents of our experience are constantly in flux, constantly flowing and changing. 

00:21 
So in a sense, the subject matter of the koan, as it were, is actually constantly changing, even though the words are the same, because our experience is constantly changing. So let's have another sit with it. 

00:39 
Come into your comfortable seated position. Can you drop right in? Relaxing the body. Relaxing the mind. Letting the heart area be soft, warm, perhaps a little bit tender. Recognizing we're being given the gift right now of being quietly aware. 

01:23 
And that quiet awareness can meet whatever is going on in our hearts and minds and our sense experience. And we bring in this little phrase just to keep our awareness open, to help support us in being aware and meeting whatever is arising. 

01:55 
What is this? What is this? you feel free to use the phrase anyway you find helpful. Again, standard, traditional ways would include quite a regular repetition, perhaps riding on each exhale, or an occasional repetition. 

02:28 
Find what works for you. Can we meet the ever-flowing stream of experience? What is this? Is there a way in which something is quite still and quiet, even in the midst of the constant flow of experience, of body sensations, of soundscape, thoughts and feelings, somewhere something is unmoving? 

05:12 
What is this? you Can you sense this unmoving part? It's fine, if not. Either way, what is this? Can you trust this little phrase to take you a little deeper into meditation without your needing to do anything? 

07:43 
What is this? Notice whether breath has become slower, calmer. What is this? you you No trying for anything, just sitting here with what is this. gently bringing movement back into the body. What is movement? 

11:12 
Looking around. What is seeing? Coming back into the space you're in. Staying aware. So again, this really is the handiest of koans. You can pull it out anytime through the day. Just say it once, notice whatever you notice, and continue with your day. 

11:42 
Wishing you a fine rest of your day. 
