
00:00 
Hi, welcome to our first meditation session in this new retreat. What is this? So I want to just remind us that this trail is actually all about cohens as offering us support. So even when it comes to this cohen, what is this? 

00:17 
Think of it not as a question that you're being challenged to find an answer to. Think of it more as a kind of fertilizer that's being added to the waters of your practice. It's an enrichment agent, not a kind of high bar that you're supposed to get over, still less an enigma you're supposed to solve and unravel. 

00:47 
Let's come into a comfortable seated position. I invite you to rock backwards and forwards a little bit. Or side to side if that's easier. While doing this, get your spine arranged comfortably. If you're sitting without back support, it's advisable to have some lumbar arch in the lower spine, at least a little bit, so we're not slouching. 

01:24 
And then come into stillness and just drop everything, relax everything. Let all the joints go limp and loose, the jaw, shoulders, elbows, wrists, clavicles, hips, knees, ankles, whole body, limp and loose. 

02:01 
resting, and present. What is this? This sitting here, being aware, this human body, soundscape, the warm feel of the body, and yeah, awareness, what is all this? Don't try to answer the question, just see if you can notice experience a bit more intimately, and you can float the phrase on every out breath or you can just use it now and then as we sit. 

03:08 
What is this? Allow yourself to be quite restful and let the little phrase calm you down, soothe you, and open up perhaps a slightly different kind of awareness. What is this? you What is this? What is this? 

06:38 
Let the phrase bring you a little deeper into your meditation by itself. What is this? Just being still, being quiet, being here, gently apply the phrase to your immediate experience. What is this? you you Out of restfulness, awareness emerges. 

09:11 
What is this? Thank you. let's stay aware as we come out of the meditation so there's really not that much difference perhaps between when we're meditating and when we're not meditating the main difference is that we're looking around now and there's movement in the body and we may be more engaged in activities but we can still be aware so i invite you to try this little phrase now and then through your day you can really drop it in at any time what is this going shopping doing some work making a cup of tea what is this have a great rest of your day 
