
00:00 
Hi. Before we move away from co-ans for a little bit, I wanted to touch in on one of the other great primordial co-ans, and that's, who am I? In point of fact, the question, what is this, is sometimes thought to be identical to the question, who am I? 

00:22 
When we're really asking, what is this? We could be asking it of specific things, but we can also be asking it of the entire experience of this life, what is this life? And to ask that question is also really to ask, who am I? 

00:39 
What is this thing called a human being that I apparently am, having this kind of experience? So we'll be inviting a flavour of that in as we come into meditation now. So let's get comfortable. Let's see if we can drop in. 

01:07 
Imagine a pebble dropping into a pool. Can we drop in to the stillness of meditation in a comparable way? you Sitting like this, aware, present, still, and in the same spirit we can drop in the little question, what is this? 

02:00 
Let it be like a pebble dropped into a pool. What is this? no striving, no seeking for any answers, no trying to solve something. Just drop the question into the beautiful pool of meditation. What is this? 

04:28 
Now we might see if we can let the question grow in us a little bit. What is this life? What is this experience? Being alive. you Can we really not think about the question, but rather just be attentive to this, to our actual experience now? 

06:02 
What is this? Sense the stillness of the body, and sense the mind's capacity for stillness. Without letting the mind move, drop in the question, what is this? Can we somehow let the question be a mindless one? 

08:34 
It's not one to which the mind is invited, just a pebble dropped in a pond. What is this? you What is this life? What is this experience? What is this person? What is this? letting the body move, wiggle fingers and toes, remaining aware, looking around, sort of coming back to the space you're in. 

11:22 
One side of practice, for sure, is about finding more peace, more calm, more equanimity, and another side is about the possibility of discoveries we can make about the nature of our life, our self, our consciousness. 

11:39 
It's on this second side of practice that Cohen work really does have a part to play. Cohens can loosen, shake up and create upheavals in deep assumptions and preconceptions we've had about life. But we've done quite a lot of it just now, and I want to congratulate you on that, and we're going to take a break from it now. 

12:02 
Next up, a sit where we rest with a single syllable, wishing you a fine rest of your day. 
