
00:00 
Hi, and welcome to worry. I feel a little strange saying that, but actually it is quite sincere. The purpose of this sit is precisely that, to say welcome to worry. The more we learn to allow our difficult emotions, our difficult states of mind, the less tormented and disturbed by them we can be. 

00:25 
It's as if the allowing of difficult feelings is helping something to grow in us that is a counterbalance to them, and that is the capacity to hold them. The more space we have for them, the more patience we have with them, the more chance there is that they easily release themselves. 

00:49 
So let's come into a comfortable seated position, check in, allow your body to become comfortable the best it can, and allow all your musculature to release, to soften, and to loosen. Imagine you're like some old sailing ship where all the rigging, the many complicated ropes, all suddenly go slack and rest. 

01:42 
It's a very common experience for human beings to have some worry. As we're sitting here in stillness and quiet, we can check in with ourselves. Amid all the weave of experience right now, is there a thread or a strain of worry? 

03:08 
It's actually not uncommon to feel a little worry even at the thought of searching for worry. We're going to be tending to that along with any other worry we may be finding. What does worry feel like in the body? 

03:30 
Where is it in the body? For many, it might show up in the diaphragm area, for many also in the chest area. It might show up as a pressure, a tightness, perhaps some kind of constriction. Whatever it is, can you find a way to really wholeheartedly let it be present? 

05:00 
Allow it. you What would it be like if you knew that Worry was a very common feature of Worry? of human experience. If you knew that it wasn't something to worry about, rather it's something to tend to with kindness, can you open to it with a spirit of tenderness? 

07:24 
Truly, worry is a very common human experience. What would it take to be kind towards any worry we're experiencing, to unabashedly allow it and welcome it, be kind to it? you Imagine that we're sitting by the bed of a child and the child is worrying and we really just want to be a calm, soothing presence for the worried child. 

08:59 
That's how we can be with our own worry. Can you bring a subtle smile into your face and just smile gently at whatever worry you might be detecting? Let it know you're fully welcoming to it. gently bringing movement back into the body, looking around and remaining aware. 

11:37 
As you go through your day, you can check in with your own emotional state and just see, is worry present or is something more pleasant present? Whatever it is, just be with it for a little moment and then carry on with your day. 

11:55 
Thanks for practicing with us on the way. 
