
00:00 
Welcome back. In this session, we're going to be starting to work with anxiety, which is widely regarded as being a global pandemic today. Of course, that's a rather sad state of affairs, but it is also something that might give us pause when we feel alone with our anxiety. 

00:20 
We're really not. There's a great Tibetan contemporary teacher Mingya Rinpoche, who has described his early struggles with meditation that really centered around his anxiety. He went on a three-year retreat, in fact, as a fairly young guy, and he said basically the whole retreat was about coming to terms with his anxiety. 

00:44 
And he said in the end he made friends with it, and that was an absolute turning point in his path of practice to make friends with anxiety. We're going to see if we can get some taste of what that might mean in this session. 

01:00 
So let's come into a comfortable, still place in our bodies and in our minds. Let yourself kind of unlock, unclench, release, become loose, soft, open. And we'll just rest here a moment, sensing the body and listening. 

01:45 
you Let's turn our mindful lens inwards and see what we can detect in the body, especially the torso, by way of emotion tone, in particular seeing if we can tease out any subtle strands Thank you very much. 

03:00 
of anxiety that might be present. Of course we don't always want to look for anxiety because it's not pleasant, but can you find any parts of the torso that feel like they might have some discomfort in them? 

04:18 
And see if you can rest your inner gaze around them, see if you can get to know a little bit about location, dimension and timbre or quality of sensation. you So, as we bring this attitude of curiosity and inquiry to any emotion sensations that might be associated with anxiety that are present, notice whether that curiosity has an intrinsic quality also of letting the sensations be here. 

05:59 
of allowing them. Is it possible to sit with a sense of your whole body and notice that within it there's an area of sensation that might be uncomfortable, that's associated with some anxiety? And that area can be present, is allowed to be present as part of a larger field? 

07:29 
you you The larger, broader field of allowing is itself a form of awareness? Does it have a kind attitude, a welcoming attitude, hidden within it? is it possible that our very awareness might be pre-equipped with a patience, a kindness that can welcome and be at peace with all our states of mind? 

11:06 
See if you can stay in touch with a sense of patience, kindness, allowing, as we bring movement back into the body, and raise our eyes, and look around, and come back to the space we're in. If you like, make a little intention that you're going to bring this quality of allowing of patience into your activities as you go through your day today, and maybe deliberately touch back into it from time to time. 

11:47 
Have a great rest of your day. 
