
00:00 
Welcome to another session. In this one I want to explore what some researchers call emotion tone. This can be a subtle sense of an energy of emotion that's present just beneath the surface of our cognition, and it can be very helpful to see if something like that is present. 

00:21 
The very process of detecting if it is or isn't is a helpful exercise in becoming much more mindful and much more present. Not only that, but it also brings on intrinsically a kind of curiosity, which is a very different way to approach emotion states that are uncomfortable. 

00:43 
By the way, the great nuclear chemist turned healer Moshe Feldenkrais talked about tonus in the body, possibly another name for the same thing. So let's come into our meditation posture. As always, we want the body to be at ease, the best it can. 

01:09 
So being balanced, being relaxed, allowing a state of rest to come on. No great task is being asked of us, not at all. you Becoming present. Let yourself sense the field of body sensations and sense the soundscape. 

01:55 
you As we're resting and becoming more present, can you detect? any kind of subtle continuous tone of an energy or perhaps a tension in your body. Just under the surface of our common consciousness, is there perhaps a subtle emotion tone present in the body? 

04:25 
you you Thank you. If you are finding something like this, what does it feel like? It could be a subtle wisp of energy, or perhaps somewhat like a vibrating guitar string, or it might be like a subtle current of electricity. 

05:47 
Investigate, see what you can detect. Whatever you might be finding, can you be with it and fully let it be present? Wholeheartedly allow it. Sometimes our allowing requires a little bit of a release, almost a kind of surrender, where we really just give in and decide to let this thing, whatever it is, be present and welcome it. 

08:21 
you Whatever our experience is, right now, can you wholeheartedly allow it, welcome it, receive and appreciate it, even be grateful for it. that slowly come out of the meditation, seeing if we can stay aware and allowing and appreciative of our experience right now as we bring movement back into the body, as we look around the space we're in. 

11:06 
Once again, we're both getting to know our emotion states a little bit more closely and intimately, and also developing our capacity for allowing and for a kind of self-kindness directed towards our feeling states. 

11:26 
Have a great rest of your day. 
