
00:00 
Welcome back. One of the challenges of anxiety is that it tends to manifest in thought loops, in repetitive, perseverative thinking, and it can be quite hard to get out of that cognitive manifestation of it. 

00:18 
The key is to get into the body and find the sensations associated with it. It's actually the very sensations themselves that are really the heart of the matter. Our meditation is such a great endeavour and arena for being able to address those very body sensations. 

00:39 
Having our attitude towards them be an incredible path of growth, to go from hating it and wishing it gone to allowing it, will already massively reduce anxiety. But beyond that, it can be a path of discovery, where we find something remarkable about our emotions and also about our awareness of them, that they're both part of one great field of wide open awareness that can really be felt to be infused with a pervasive, 

01:14 
unconditional love. So let's come back into a position for another meditation to see if we might catch a little glimpse of something like this. So bringing stillness into the body, letting the body become still, and once again letting it soften, feel a softness pervade the body. 

01:50 
And maybe you'll find that that softness somehow naturally spreads into the mind. The mind also becomes soft. Resting in a kind of openness, gentle and soft. And let's start to see what kinds of emotion sensation we can detect in the body. 

03:25 
Can you detect any subtle traces, wisps, or hums or vibrations that might be associated with anxiety? And if you don't find anything like that, notice their absence. If you are finding traces of anxiety, let them be present. 

04:52 
Can you welcome them? Can you find that within you which knows how to be with them in a kind, welcoming way? you The sense of welcoming, of allowing, of being with any traces of stress, unease, or anxiety. 

06:20 
Just rest in that very... condition of allowing. The very condition of being patient, allowing and welcoming. What really is that like, how large is it, where is it? you you you The quality of our kindly disposed patients, where does it come from? 

08:55 
Do we manufacture it, or is it somehow already available, something pre-existing? Is it possible that we ourselves can rest back into a pre-existing kindness, presence of a deep patient allowing that's already here? 

11:22 
Let's gently bring movement back into the body and raise the eyes and look about and just touch into awareness as we do so, not losing touch with it. So what we've been doing is getting to identify basically different qualities of stress as sensations in the body and then learning to allow them to be present, which is actually a great way not just of defusing them, but also of finding an innate kindness. 

12:05 
I really believe this can be one of the most helpful things we can do for ourselves. Have a great rest of your day. 
