
00:00 
Hi. A lot of us live with a sense of time pressure, of time deficit, that we're always perhaps slightly in a rush, as never quite enough time. While it's true that many of us might lead very busy lives juggling different projects and commitments and responsibilities, at the same time this kind of time deficit is actually a symptom and a feature of stress. 

00:29 
And sometimes we can be in just the same circumstances but free of it. In this meditation let's explore time deficit and see if we can soften it with a sense of innate kindness. Let's come into a comfortable and just gently start to notice what's going on. 

01:01 
You'll probably be hearing some sounds. you There'll be various kinds of body sensation present. you There might be traces of thought, of thinking arising. And what kind of state of mind are you in? Are you at peace? 

01:37 
Are you stressed? Are you wondering if you can even fit this meditation time in? Just see what's going on for you. you Whatever you've been finding, can you wholeheartedly say yes to it, allow it? let it be this way if there are elements in your experience right now you can't allow can you allow that yes i'm not ready right now to allow x or y Amid the strands of experience present for you, is there a sense of time pressure, 

04:23 
of shortness of time? If you can detect that, what does it feel like, how do you know it's present, and if it's absent? That's fine. you If you don't have a sense of shortness of time or time pressure, you can rest with this absence or you could call it to mind. 

05:47 
If you are finding it anyway, where is it in your body? What does it feel like? And what would it take to allow it to be present? Again, we're exploring time pressure, and is there a way of allowing it, of being with it, not disagreeing with it, not pushing it away, fully letting it be part of our experience? 

07:22 
you you you Is it possible there might be a way in which we could not just allow time pressure but welcome it, really embrace the part of us that feels it, feel kindly towards it? Is it possible that time pressure could not just be allowed, not just be welcomed, but even somehow be beloved, be a welcomed and loved element within our experience? 

10:56 
Let's bring movement back into the body gently, opening or raising the eyes and looking around, staying with the meditation as we come out of it, remaining aware. I know that these might seem like rather counterintuitive exercises to be feeling kindly toward that which we find uncomfortable, but there's a method in the madness, it's a paradoxical thing, that when we reduce our wish to get rid of uncomfortableness, 

11:37 
the less uncomfortable it tends to become. Enjoy. 
