
00:00 
Hi, welcome to this new trail, Original Love. I believe there's a kind of intrinsic kindness that we all come pre-installed with. We can of course turn it towards others, and we can also turn it towards ourselves. 

00:16 
Some argue that we won't so effectively turn it towards others until we've turned it on ourselves, so we've become familiar with what it's like to feel self-compassion. That makes it so much easier to have compassion for others. 

00:33 
I came to feel that this was a really important ingredient for practice, that it could unlock practice in magnificent ways. One time long ago when I was in Venezuela on a writing assignment, having completed that assignment, I then stayed in a little fishing village on a beach for several weeks while working on a book. 

00:54 
Every evening I went out onto the beach to do my evening meditation, and this little group of boys would come and ask me if I could teach them and show them how to do what I was doing. So I did, and in time it became a little nightly gathering, and more kids joined in and sometimes their parents came, and every time I would go over the instructions, very basic instructions for sitting, and I found that sitting there in the evening air as the day was kind of dissolving, 

01:28 
and you could hear the waves lapping in this lovely bay nearby, there was such a sense of ease. There was such a sense that we weren't trying to get anywhere, that meditation wasn't some kind of accomplishment we were supposed to get, or attainment still less, that we were supposed to reach. 

01:48 
It was just about melting into the moment and finding a great ease and a great support, an intrinsic support, that seemed to be already with us. And actually, that was the seed for a book and a program I later developed called Original Love. 

02:08 
The main tenet and theory of it was that whatever kind of practice we're doing and whatever sense of progress we might have in it, it always comes about by virtue of some kind of release that opens up a sense of innate kindness, a sense of innate love, even, which, as it were, knows how to meet our practice. 

02:33 
So practice becomes more a matter of letting go, of trusting, of releasing, and through that process, on ever deepening levels, we're finding, I would argue, a larger and larger field of support and, yeah, even of love. 

02:53 
And that can even go so far as the great awakening to gone this great space of nothing at all, not even space actually, yet somehow that is filled with a kind of well-being, a kind of love, at least in time that's what starts to emerge from it and show itself, and can guide our daily life. 

03:17 
So in this trail we're going to be approaching some kind of taste of an original love through four different gateways, one for each retreat. The first of these is going to be perhaps a little unlikely, and it's stress, a sense of pressure, urgency, distress, unease, and we'll explore how that can be a gateway, how it can call forth an innate kindness. 

03:50 
See you in the first sip. 
