
00:00 
Hi and welcome to our first sit in this new trail and in this new retreat. We're looking at the topic of original love, some kind of pre-existing, almost like a benevolence that is part of our very own awareness, our very own makeup, an innate goodness and innate kindness. 

00:23 
I'd like to encourage you to shelve any grave doubts you might have about whether you have such a thing for the moment. Of course be naturally skeptical but just be open-minded as well. It may seem paradoxical to approach this theme with things we find difficult such as stress but that's what we're going to do because that's where it's most effective to find it. 

00:51 
That is an area where this inner resource is most helpful. In this retreat I'm going to be leading us through various approaches to different kinds of stress and we're going to start with a tendency we probably many of us have to kind of lean forward into the next moment rather than the one we're currently in. 

01:13 
It's as if quite often we're in a hurry to get past our current experience into experience that we imagine is coming but if we can just kind of wind that tendency back then we can settle back into this moment where we have a chance of finding this intrinsic kindness which in turn helps us with the feeling of stress. 

01:38 
So let's settle right now into our first sit in this new trail. Finding your way to a comfortable stillness. What does it take to allow you your body to settle into a restful stillness. See if it helps to soften the throat, to soften the shoulders, soften the hips. 

02:27 
Can you let the whole torso become soft? And does that help us find a settling down? Are coming into experience right now? As we're settling in be open to whatever sensations, impulses, energies you might be carrying. 

03:09 
And let's start by seeing if we can detect any push or lean toward the next moment rather than the one here and now. Can you sense a forward lean? If after some sincere searching you're not finding it, that's great, taste what it's like for such a thing to be absent. 

04:40 
If you are finding a kind of push toward the next moment, what does it feel like? How do you know it's present? Is it in your mind? Is it in your body? this sense of pressing toward the future, is it detectable in your chest, your belly, or some other part of the body? 

07:10 
Again, if you're not finding any of this forward leaning, enjoy its absence. If you are, can you find a way to fully allow it to be present? It might be a little uncomfortable, but is there a way you can just let it be as it is? 

07:38 
You don't need to change it. you Can you see if there's any slight tightness in your torso, perhaps in the front of the body, and if that seems to correlate with a pull toward the next moment? Can you really welcome it, allow it to be here? 

10:02 
What would it take not to be trying to change any forward leaning, but instead to really allow it to be part of the fabric of your experience right now? you you you Whatever sense of allowing we may have been able to find, can you maintain it now as we come out of meditation? 

11:33 
So still allowing your experience to be as it is, but with eyes open and raised, with body moving, and with more awareness of your immediate circumstances. Okay great, so this quality of allowing that we've just been exploring is a key step towards the uncovering of an innate kindness. 

12:03 
Have a great rest of your day. 
