
00:00 
Hi, welcome back to this retreat on allowing. I'm thinking of it as a kind of allowing clinic, a booster for developing and enhancing our capacity for allowing our own experience. It's such an important skill. 

00:16 
It's really in a way probably not a skill, but rather an innate capacity that we uncover. But the uncovering of it is made easier by practice and perhaps some skills development. It's important because it can massively reduce our suffering. 

00:34 
There's so many ways in which then times we suffer become opportunities for discovering self-compassion, self-kindness. So then our difficulties are also opportunities for well-being. Let's come into our meditation posture. 

00:54 
Get yourself balanced and allow the balance and the ease and support you physically have right now to help you soften, to allow the body to soften. And notice how softening brings more presence. Resting. 

01:29 
Being present. So in this meditation we're going to bring on and explore a sense of urgency. Many of us live with a sense of urgency that we really need to get X or Y done quickly. we can't let things unfold at their own pace, we've got to be applying pressure because there's a sense of pressure that we're feeling. 

02:15 
So right now, see if something like that kind of urgency is present for you. And if it is, try to detect what it really consists of. For those of us who are detecting some sense of urgency, drill down into it. 

03:38 
There may be elements of it that are cognitive in the mind, but also for sure there'll be some in the body, in the torso. What sensations can you detect? If you're not finding any urgency, enjoy being free of it, or bring a little to mind. 

05:01 
What kinds of sensation are associated with urgency? Is there a sense of heat, of tightness, or density or pressure? Whatever you're finding, can you allow it? you What would it take to really allow a sense of urgency, to really welcome it? 

06:29 
to be entirely open to it. To allow an unpleasant sensation, such as urgency, requires a little shift, a little release where we go from objecting to not objecting. you you you It can help to really tune into the actual physical sensations, density, tightness, pressure, heat. 

09:06 
Why not just allow them to be present, part of the field of experience? What does it feel like when we do allow an uncomfortable sensation? What happens to us when we welcome it? When we are kindly disposed towards something difficult? 

11:31 
Whatever sense of allowing or even kindness that may have developed in this meditation, can you stay with it as you bring your body back into movement and as you gaze around the space that you're in, coming out of meditation and remaining aware and allowing, if we possibly can? 

12:02 
Lovely. Thanks for joining me in another sit. Next up, we're going to be turning to the very common condition of worry and anxiety and hopefully finding ways to tend it that are very helpful. Have a great rest of your day. 
