
00:00 
Welcome to another session exploring the practice of allowing, of becoming more open-hearted, giving more love to that within us which we find difficult, which feels difficult, which we don't want, which we want to push away, or we want to resist. 

00:17 
This comes under the broad umbrella of preferences, of like and dislike, of craving and aversion. In early Buddhism, these were identified as the engines, the cause, of all suffering. So let's see what it's like to welcome them and defuse them through the power of our welcome. 

00:42 
Coming into a comfortable seated position once again, and just noting that because of this practice, there's no way we need to be, there's no special condition required for meditation. Rather than seeking what we think we might want from meditation, counter-intuitively, we simply welcome ourselves, our experience, as we are. 

01:14 
And it's that process that gently carries us to a much more peaceful and loving state of being. So right now, just gently scan what's going on in your body and check in how your mind is doing. What if there's no need to change anything? 

01:47 
All we need to do, all we're invited to do, is to welcome the way we are right now. We're not trying to let anything go. We're not trying to push anything away, we're just seeing what is present, becoming aware of what is present and allowing it. 

03:12 
See if you can really get a sense of bathing it in your welcome. Can you detect subtle traces, wisps, vibrations of discomfort in the body? And can you let them be? Can you acknowledge them and accept them? 

04:33 
Allow them. you Sometimes, the body-field may be open, spacious, calm, at ease. Can you welcome that? Can you let this practice of welcoming, of allowing, be very restful? It doesn't actually require any effort. 

06:54 
It really is a kind of opening, a gentle softening opening toward our experience. Yeah, a reminder, there's no need for the body feel to be open and at peace. We open to it just as it is, softening, opening, welcoming to exactly what is present for us. 

08:24 
you Can you let yourself be open, gentle, soft and welcoming, to all experience arising? Let's gently bring movement back into the body, swaying or rocking a little bit, opening or raising the eyes, coming back to the space that you're in. 

10:53 
Just another quick reminder that we're on the path toward a much more open awareness that can serve us all through our day. Experiencing being more open, gentle and soft can really help to bring on that kind of awareness and also bring on more kindness toward ourselves and others and the world around us. 

11:20 
Have a lovely rest of your day. 
