
00:00 
Welcome. The logic of what we're doing here is that the more we welcome and allow preference, the more we're undercutting its activity. If we're approaching subtle preferences that commonly arise in us with an attitude of total acceptance, we're actually sort of undermining the effects of preference on our system. 

00:24 
It's as if we're taking a step back to a place of total allowing and then preference no longer has a hold on us. It's more that we hold it in a larger space of welcome. So we'll have another run at this in this session. 

00:43 
So let's get comfortable again. Let your body be in a position where you can freely release at your jaw go. Let shoulders settle and arms settle and hands and fingers become limp. Let legs and feet and toes all be limp. 

01:18 
Let the mind soften and loosen. Listen to the soundscape around you and just touch in with your inner experience. How are you doing? Are you at peace, calm, easeful? Are there traces of energies or tensions or tightness, wanting, not wanting, light craving or aversion? 

02:12 
Whatever you're finding, can you meet it with total acceptance with a great kindness with a warm welcome? Again, you may be free of preferences right now, or they may be showing up very subtly if you look closer, but whatever we're finding, can we meet it with great warmth, kindness, and welcoming? 

04:48 
Imagine that you can mobilize a force of welcome, of wholehearted openness, that's within you and somehow also comes from beyond you in some way, and you can call it forth to meet whatever is arising in your experience. 

05:14 
you If it's available for you, look into the inner volume of your torso, and see what you can detect, what subtle wisps. of preferences might be present, and bathe them with loving, warm, allowing. What if we have had meditation back to front, we thought we're trying to get a certain kind of experience, instead all we're doing is allowing experience ever more, warmly and thoroughly. 

07:53 
you you If some piece is showing up, allow that. If traces of preference are showing up, allow them, whatever is arising, welcome it. Welcome it. If we're finding ourselves in a restful place, welcome that. 

10:14 
If there are traces, wisps of unease, welcome them. Whatever's present for you right now, meet it with tenderness, with warmth. and bringing some movement into the body, and staying aware, staying in touch with what you've experienced in the meditation as you open or raise your eyes and look about and become more aware of the space that you're in. 

11:47 
A quick practice tip, why not try pausing now and then through your day and just do a quick check, is there any subtle craving or any subtle aversion present and note it if it is present and also note their absence. 

12:07 
Wishing you well. 
