
00:00 
Welcome. In this retreat we're going to be looking at two things, resistance and grasping. These sometimes are known as preference or preferences. We're going to be investigating them and we're going to be seeing if we can meet them with a very warm welcome, with a kind of loving embrace, which actually reduces their potency. 

00:25 
But why do we want to do any of the above? Well, our lives tend to be ruled by preferences. There's a famous line in an early Zen poem that says, when like and dislike disappear, the way becomes clear. 

00:39 
In other words, when we are freed from these twin preferences, we awaken. We realize that ourself has not been what we thought it had been all along and open up to a vastly greater sense of life and what this world is. 

01:00 
And that's because preferences are one of the most fundamental ways that the self functions. They're a kind of foundational functioning of the sense of self, to want this, to not want that, to resist this, to grasp or reach after that. 

01:19 
I want to give a couple of examples here. The philosopher, Bill Irvin, took up rowing. And the reason he took it up was that he knew it would push against his resistances. He'd have to get up early. He'd have to go out into the cold. 

01:35 
He'd have to go out on cold water and get splashed and dribbled by cold water, all of which were uncomfortable things that he would naturally resist. But through pushing through, through overcoming the sense of resistance, he opened up his life much more. 

01:54 
He became freer of the constraints that resist. distance can bring to our life, and much more actually open-hearted. Another little vignette to think about that might help give a sense of the functioning of preferences and the reason it can help so much to get clearer about them. 

02:17 
I remember going to one of my first meditation retreats as a young man and getting an itch on one of my ankles. Normally, the moment we get an itch, we scratch it, but in the circumstances I was in, we were strongly, strongly discouraged from making any kind of movement. 

02:38 
It was really all about stillness in the whole hall, so I couldn't just scratch it. And an itch is a clear example of preferences at work, because as soon as there's an itch, we don't want it to be there that's resisting it. 

02:52 
And we do want to scratch it. That's grasping for something. We want the relief of scratching. and we did not want the experience of the itch, so both preferences are strongly functional when there's an itch. 

03:06 
If we're not able to scratch, either we can't reach it or we're just in a space where it's not okay to scratch, it can grow and grow in proportion until, in my case, it became something quite vast, this really big problem, you know, and it really overwhelming my experience, I just had to scratch this thing, and I couldn't, and I learnt two things. 

03:30 
One is that preferences make a claim that they will not be relieved until they get what they want, the resistance won't be relieved until the thing it's resisting is gone, the grasping, hankering, yearning, craving won't be relieved until it gets what it wants, but lo and behold, some time later I noticed the itch was still there, but I had not been grasping after its relief at all, the grasping had vanished even though the itch was still there, 

04:07 
and when the grasping and the resisting were gone, the itch changed, it became an interesting little rather beautiful tingle, in other words, to get a handle on preferences can massively reduce our suffering about things that are unpleasant, some say that our suffering is indeed generated by nothing but our craving and our resisting, so that's what we're going to be exploring in this retreat, it's bigger than the word may convey, 

04:44 
it's an important building block of our sense of self that we're going to be going in and taking a closer look at and learning to love, because we don't overcome preferences by resisting them, we learn to love them, welcome them, embrace them, and allow them, see you in the first sit. 
