
00:01 
Welcome to another sit. In this one, I want to address what to do when we're finding it really hard to concentrate, to settle down, to settle in meditation. Actually, the practice that we've been doing so far in this retreat is really instructive and helpful in exactly this regard. 

00:24 
Commonly, when we aren't settling well in meditation, when there's a lot of thinking going on, there will in fact be, as it were, surreptitious preferences somewhere in our system. They are nearly always present when our minds are swinging through the branches of thought like a monkey in the old image of monkey mind from early Buddhism. 

00:49 
So let's see what we can find. Coming into your comfortable, restful, settled posture and state of the body for meditation. Bringing the body into stillness. Is there a way that stillness itself might immediately cast a kind of spell over you? 

01:32 
Bringing clarity, quiet, and ease. Let the entire body become soft. Let your mind become open. Now let's do a little scanning of the body, of the inner space of the body, especially the torso, and just see, might any preferences be present? 

02:23 
Is there some subtle trace of leaning toward or leaning away from experience? If there is some subtle, vestige trace of leaning, can you really welcome it and allow it? And if leaning is absent, see what that's like and allow it. 

03:47 
And if you just can't tell whether there's any leaning, let it be like that. Can we allow leaning toward or desiring craving? Can we allow leaning away or aversion? And can we allow lack of clarity about leaning? 

05:15 
you Is some sense of leaning present, even if very subtle, or is leaning absent? Can you rest with your inner experience of the torso, the chest and the belly, and really allow it to be as it is, to welcome it all freely? 

08:35 
Really just resting with experience, whether there is leaning, whether there's no leaning, whether it's unclear, rest with experience. you you Just sense what it's like, just for now, to let things be. 

10:56 
bringing a gentle sway into the body swaying like a pendulum from side to side and raising or opening the eyes have an inhale and an exhale look around coming out of meditation once again we're gently getting to know and dismantling or disempowering our aversions and our cravings our resistance and our hankering and maybe catching glimpses of a very large and expansive peace and energy that that can bring. 

11:41 
Next up our last sit in this retreat where we will be maximally allowing wishing you a fine rest of your day. 
