
00:00 
Welcome back to another meditation, our final one in this retreat, exploring preferences and what it's like to allow them, and in this sit we're going to start exploring the flavor of allowing itself. 

00:18 
So let's come right into our seated position for meditation. Let your body rock a little bit back and forth, if that's comfortable, go gently and let the rocking get smaller and smaller, and when you're ready, come to rest in what feels like the middle, and see what that stillness, that still point feels like, tastes like. 

01:05 
What is the taste of stillness? Thank you. Thank you. you Let's simply meet experience as it is right now. Be with experience, body sensations, soundscape, thoughts when they bubble up, emotion tone in the chest and belly. 

02:44 
Whatever is appearing, be with it in full allowance. really meeting experience with an open and warm welcome, bathe your experience in warmth, tenderness, kindness, Whatever welcome you're able to give your experience, what does that welcoming itself feel like? 

05:17 
Welcome it as well. Thank you. Thank you. To the extent we're able to allow our experience right now, can we allow the allowing? What's it like simply to be with allowing? Again, the invitation is to welcome and love experience as it is, bathe it in warmth and welcome. 

07:51 
And as you feel that quality of warm welcome, can you welcome that as well? Is it possible that we're already being held by a warm lake of loving awareness, that all of this is already welcomed and loved? 

09:18 
Thank you. What might it be like to just let go, to release into a great space of love? gently bringing movement back into the body, coming out of meditation, looking around you, and perhaps stretching, if that feels welcome. 

11:42 
Okay, great. Congratulations on finishing another retreat here on the way, one which has been preparing us for the next step in this journey into original love, where we're going to start tuning into forms of support we're always receiving and rarely recognizing. 

12:03 
Have a great rest of your day and see you in the next retreat. 
