
00:00 
A quick reminder before we start this meditation. We're looking at preferences, that's to say basically grasping after things, hankering for things, craving and resisting, not wanting something to be present, holding it away. 

00:16 
These are two basic building blocks of our sense of self. So to get to know them better and to kind of defuse them by fully allowing them, welcoming them and even loving them, we're taking significant steps to massively reducing suffering and becoming freer of an illusory sense of self. 

00:39 
We have visited preferences before on the way and it's great to be coming back to them now with all the new learning that we've been doing in recent trials. So let's get comfortable, let's start to find our way into meditation. 

00:59 
Let it be a very natural transition. The main things are becoming still and quiet. So as we're moving into stillness and quiet, let yourself soften. Softening in the body. Jaw, throat, shoulders, arms. 

01:29 
Soft. Chest, belly, hips. All loose and soft. Legs and feet soft. Face, cranium, back of the neck. Soft. you So let's begin by becoming aware of the whole field of the body, kind of bathing your attention in the field of body sensations, letting the whole field of body sensation arise within a warm welcoming awareness. 

03:26 
Let's see if we can detect any wisps or traces of anything that's uncomfortable in the body field, and see if we can really welcome it, bathe it in warmth, in tenderness, and a full open-hearted welcome. 

04:49 
For sure, it can be a bit counterintuitive to welcome things we find unpleasant or uncomfortable, but see if it's possible to do, to really kind of stream a sense of welcome toward any traces of discomfort. 

05:11 
you When we do find stresses or areas of discomfort or tension in the body, very, very often either craving or resistance will be part of their make-up. Can you let them know that they're welcome? The more we welcome craving and aversion, the more we can investigate the precise sensations that constitute them, see if you can get a little more fine-grained about how they really feel. 

07:51 
you you you Any time you do find some discomfort or stress in the body, see if you can detect craving or aversion within it. being aware of the entire body field and allowing all of it, welcoming all of it, letting it know it's all welcome. 

11:09 
Can we stay with the same awareness and allowing as we bring movement back into the body and as we raise the eyes, look around, come back into our ordinary space, wherever we are? I've found that this practice of allowing can really open up a more tender, compassionate, warm and open-hearted way of living. 

11:37 
If you're already getting some taste of that, wonderful, and if not, no worries, we're going to keep exploring it. It's actually a kind of never-ending point of return in our practice. Have a lovely rest of your day. 
