
00:00 
Welcome to the first sit in our new retreat. So it's very common that there's some kind of background trace of preference running in our system that we're not aware of. In this meditation, we're going to be tuning in to our sense of the body and the inner space of the torso, the inner volume of the torso, to see if we can detect any traces of preference of wanting, of grasping, of clinging, holding to something. 

00:32 
We might not even know what it is that we think we're holding to, and yet the preference may be there, or conversely aversion, pushing away, not wanting something. And then we're going to see whether we can hold any preference we find in a space of allowing and welcoming and even loving that can get larger and larger. 

00:53 
So let's come into our comfortable seated position. And right away, actually, just check in with yourself. Is there some preference operating now? Is there a sense of wanting perhaps this meditation to be a certain kind of experience? 

01:24 
Might there also be some aversion, some sense that we don't particularly want to do a meditation now, or we don't want a particular kind of experience to arise during the meditation? Just explore what's present for you. 

01:45 
you So, the key thing in this meditation is that whatever we find, we're going to welcome it, we're going to allow it, we're going to bathe it in a warm sense of welcome. So if there is any trace of aversion, of reluctance, or of wanting, craving something, let that craving, let that aversion be met with love, with allowing. 

04:11 
We're getting to know what it's like to be leaning one way or another towards something or away from something, to have preferences operating, and also what it's like to fully allow them, to really welcome them. 

04:31 
you If there's any trace of unease, of discomfort in the body, it'll very likely come with some aversion or resistance associated with it. Can you let it all be welcome? is there something you're really craving, maybe subtly, could be some meditation state or something else? 

06:58 
Can you detect how that craving feels if it is present? Find it in the body and welcome it, allow it, meet it, with total acceptance. Notice what happens when we really allow, accept, and welcome the experience going on. 

08:22 
What's arising for us? Does it bring peace, warmth, tenderness? Welcome that as well. you Is there a way we can come to rest in the midst of the welcome that is being given to whatever is arising in experience? 

09:45 
What's it like to welcome whatever is arising? Okay, so we'll gently bring movement back into the body, and stay with whatever you've been finding in your meditation. Keep one hand on it, as it were, as you open your eyes and look around, and come back into the space you're in. 

11:11 
Great, that's our first step into the process of understanding preference more clearly, and, as it were, defusing it. Have a great rest of your day. 
