
00:00 
Welcome back. So in this retreat we're exploring things that we are given that we so commonly take for granted that we never generally stop to think about them, let alone feel that we're actually receiving a form of love in the shape of these things without which we would not have life. 

00:22 
And in this sit we're going to be taking a closer look at elements within our bodies. So let's start by finding a comfortable position. Let's take note of the fact that we're hitting pause on the common activities of our days in order to be quiet and still and notice that we are alive. 

00:56 
So let's soften the body and now let's allow all the key joints in the body, in the bone structure to loosen. Let the jaw be loose. Notice that there can be a softness in the jaw hinges by the mandible attaches to the skull. 

01:26 
Let the shoulders be loose. Let elbows and wrists be completely limp. Let all the vertebrae be balanced and at ease. Let the hips be loose. They might even and spread a little. Let the knees be loose. 

02:11 
Let the ankles be loose and limp. Now check that your hands and fingers are quite limp. And also that the feet and toes are completely limp. So this whole architecture of bone all through the body, the core in some ways of the body. 

02:50 
It's all loose. What is it like to be aware of all our bones? What's it like to sense all these bones being loose and at rest? Can we recognise that all our bones are made of chemicals and minerals that are found in the geological fabric of this Earth? 

05:20 
In a sense, they're pieces of the very Earth. Can we recognise that we're not really as separate as we might think from the Earth we walk on? you Is there a way of recognizing our skeletal structure as a gift, as an intrinsic support for our very life? 

06:46 
What would it be like to thank our skeletons? for intrinsically supporting us. Skeletons have been figures of fear in popular culture and folklore, but really they're part of the very fabric of ourselves, of our life. 

08:09 
Is there a way we might instead be grateful for our skeletons? you you you What if our very skeleton is part of the very planet hidden within us, showing us that we're not really separate? Can you let yourself rest in gratitude for your bones? 

11:29 
As we bring movement back into the body, can we just remain gratefully aware of the bones that are part of that very movement? Let's take a deeper inhale and an exhale, look around, coming back out of meditation. 

11:54 
Again, we're gently unpicking our sense of separateness from all else, rediscovering our thoroughgoing into connectivity with all things. Have a great rest of your day. 
