
00:00 
Welcome to our next sit. In the last one we were looking at what it is that allows us to have all experience in the first place, namely consciousness. Now we'll focus in a little bit more on elements of experience that are always here that we might commonly overlook. 

00:21 
What we want to be doing basically is recognizing how much we're being given by having life at all. So right now we're going to come to that other essential ingredient of life, the body. Let's come into our comfortable seated position for meditation, and that really means arranging this body in a way that allows for maximum relaxation, for minimum holding, minimum tension in the body. 

01:01 
So being balanced if your spine is unsupported, and if the spine is supported, giving it to its support. So the whole body can soften and loosen and find its own intrinsic rest, even while perhaps being upright. 

01:33 
And that restfulness in the body is also the pathway, the portal, to a deep stillness, letting the body be still as a mountain. Feel free to try running that phrase through the mind now and then, still as a mountain. 

03:07 
What is it that tells us our body is present? Basically, it will be certain kinds of sensation, pressure, touch, and some kind of intrinsic, vibratory energy or warmth. Just sense the presence of the body. 

04:30 
So much of our lives, we might not even notice our body. This is a time just to receive its existence, receive the signature in experience of your body. you Whatever else it may be, this body is the fruit, the result, of billions of years of the biosphere evolving. 

06:00 
And here it is, come down over so much time. this precise form that you are, given to you to experience. It might seem so obvious that it's hard to do, but can we feel gratitude for the existence of this very body, the very body that is you? 

07:30 
you you you At times our bodies may have problems, but as has been said, as long as we're breathing there's more right with us than wrong. Is it possible to invite a sense of gratitude for this body? 

09:46 
What's it like to rest in a still body, and feel grateful for it? Let's see if we can rest in awareness of the body as we bring some movement back into it. You might sway gently, either side to side or forward and back, look around, take a deeper inhale and an exhale. 

11:18 
Great. Another step on this path of recognizing our interdependency with so many other things. Have a great rest of your day. 
