
00:01 
Welcome to this first sit in our new retreat on this trail called Original Love. Original Love is a coinage that refers to the original nature or the awakened nature that is always here, and which in a sense is the great goal or purpose of practice, to really discover that and live from it. 

00:26 
But the term Original Love is pointing to kindness or loving kindness intrinsic in that awakened nature. In this retreat, we're basically going to be drawing attention to forms of support that are pre-existing in our lives, that are given already, but we may commonly not really pay attention to or even recognize. 

00:53 
Okay, so let's come into our meditation posture. Get yourself comfortable. You can take a little bit of time adjusting the body, moving the body around so that you can really be settled and comfortable to begin with just physically. 

01:22 
And notice what it's like to be physically settled. Yeah, the body's okay. you And then let your awareness sort of switch on so that you're aware not just of the body but also of space around you, soundscape around you. 

01:56 
And you might also be aware of any energies that are... on board at the moment, letting them be welcome. you Great, so let's begin by really just noticing this solid body of ours, body like a mountain. 

02:25 
Let yourself sit with your body as solid as a mountain. So while the body is here, like a mountain, notice that breath is gently wafting, stirring around the mountain like a breeze. Feel the breeze of the breath. 

04:49 
Let your mind be open like the sky, sky like mind, open. you you And let your heart be warm like the sun. You might imagine you're in some warm place and you're being warmed by the sun in your heart area. 

07:13 
So all these elements are freely given to us, the body with its solidity, the breath, the air coming and going, the mind awareness open like the sky, and the warmth of our hearts as if warmed by a sun. 

07:37 
Rest with them. body solid like a mountain, breath like a breeze, mind like the sky, heart like the sun. you mountain body, breeze of the breath, sky of the mind, the sun of the heart. So, as we rest in awareness of being alive, let's bring movement back into the body, wiggle fingers and toes, look up, look around, and stay aware. 

11:27 
Okay, great. So, this sit was just beginning the process of becoming more aware of all that we are given, and seeing if we can begin to appreciate it more. As we proceed through these sits in this retreat, we'll be approaching various of these elements individually. 

11:47 
Have a great rest of your day. 
