
00:00 
Welcome back. So we've been exploring ways that support is already, as it were, being given to us. And this is including forms of support that are really very fundamental to our life, to our experience, and to our consciousness. 

00:19 
We're going to do a sort of recap of where we've got to in this session and start bringing in another element as well, that of the breath. So let's start by getting comfortable. However you normally sit, you can get into that position and try making a very slight adjustment, perhaps having your feet a little wider apart or your hands not in your lap but on your thighs or vice versa. 

00:51 
Just something a little different and see if that can be comfortable too. And settle in to the posture of your body. In other words, be aware of the posture of your body and allow your being, your heart, your soul, your mind to inhabit it, to really arrive here in this very posture that your body is in. 

01:31 
So once again, just a quick recap. Yeah, there's awareness. We are conscious and we are aware right now of being here. There's the field of body sensation. Somewhere in the midst of that, there's this skeletal structure that we might not sense directly, but we're aware that it's here, it's the architecture that maintains the body from within. 

02:18 
And there's also the breath coming and going. So if the body can be like a mountain, solid and still, let the breath be like a breeze blowing through and around the mountain. Can you sense both the great stillness of the body and also the movement of the breath, the gentle breeze of breath coming and going? 

04:59 
Now, is there a way that the experience of the body, the sensations of the body, might be almost like a soft armchair that we're invited to settle back into, as if there's support already here of the body given to us, and we're invited to settle into it? 

05:31 
And from that place, also experience the breath. you So, the invitation is to relax, relax. and enjoy reclining back into the experience of this subtle awareness of the body and awareness of the breath both. 

07:56 
Body like mountain, awareness like sky, breath like a breeze, coming and going, all this support freely given. you Again, is there a way that we can come back into this fundamental support of body, of awareness, of breath, really rest back into it and appreciate it and be curious about it? 

10:34 
Is there a way to be interested in these foundational experiences of our life that we so often overlook? Body sensation, the field of body sensation, awareness, breath, bringing movement back into the body, opening or raising the eyes, looking around, have a little stretch if that feels good. 

12:12 
Great, why not take a moment in the course of your day now and then to just pause, feel an inhale and the exhale, recognise the life support they're giving you and carry on with your day. Wishing you well. 
