
00:00 
Welcome back. Early in this retreat I mentioned these two Japanese concepts of jiriki and tareki, meaning self-power and other power. In terms of practice in Zen, the self-power is what we bring to the practice, our constancy, our consistency, our commitment to a path of growth. 

00:24 
Tareki, on the other hand, is what comes to us, what is given to us, recognizing more and more perhaps that we are in fact the product of a trillion trillion causes and conditions that allow our existence and our experience right now. 

00:43 
So in this final sit of the retreat we'll just take a comfortable seated posture, get yourself settled, balanced, easy, comfortable, and just start to take stock of what is already here, what is freely given. 

01:16 
Where I am, for example, there's sun coming in to one side, there's a quiet, easy sense of the morning just starting to unfold, there's this body, has a little gentle tingle of warmth throughout it, some sounds, see what's going on for you, just take a kind of inventory. 

02:58 
So what if... practice really were a matter of taking stock of what is given in a sense of how little we need to do. Perhaps this is a salutary thing when so many of us lead lives of hectic doing. Can we just receive what's here now? 

04:21 
Right now, not self-power, other power. Let all that is arising do your practice for you. you Take a back seat. Let yourself be carried by the flow of experience. Resting. Letting the practice be done by what's arising. 

07:44 
Letting practice go a little deeper by doing less, letting practice be done by all that arises. receiving practice and resting. Can we do even less receiving this practice just as it is? And can we stay in the same restful awareness as we start to move the body, as we look around us, and we come out of meditation? 

11:30 
So, the invitation today is to hit pause, now and again, taste restfulness. Notice what you're being given, what you're receiving in this very moment, and carry on with your day. Congratulations on finishing another retreat. 

11:48 
Have a great rest of your day. 
