
00:00 
Welcome to another sit here on The Way. We're exploring forms of support without which our life would not be happening at all, and seeing if we can recognize them more clearly and appreciate them more fully. 

00:18 
So let's come into our meditation posture once again, and start to settle in whatever you'd like to do, maybe a little movement of the body, just to help you recognize that indeed your body is here, and to bring awareness and the body together, and then inviting stillness, and seeing what it's like for the body to be still and freely inhabited by our awareness. 

01:03 
It can be as if we're coming home to the body. you Let yourself sense warmth all through the body. There might also be a light sensation of tingling that you can detect here and there in the body. Can you let your sense of the body become like a field of little pixels or points of light or points of experience? 

01:54 
Perhaps like a cloud of subtle sensation. However that's showing up for you, just rest with it, letting it be as it is. Is there a way we can become really absorbed in this cloud field of sensation? Almost as if we seem to dissolve into it, where our awareness becomes fully integrated with it. 

04:26 
Now we can just investigate whether there is some sense of slightly more intense sensation in the heart area, kind of approximately in the middle of this cloud field. Is there some sense of sensation in the heart area? 

04:53 
you Imagine that you're sitting somewhere in sunshine, and your eyes are closed, you can feel the warmth and the faint color of the sun on your eyelids, and you can also feel the sun's warmth. in the heart area, gently shining into your heart area. 

07:13 
Imagine that there's a warm sun warming your heart. Whatever's going on in that area for you, let the warmth of the sun bring ease. you you you Is there a way of letting the warmth in the heart area let everything be as it is? 

08:38 
That warmth perhaps has the capacity to welcome whatever's going on for us. Whatever warmth we can feel there, and whatever ease it brings, let them spread wherever they'd like through the body field. 

10:58 
Resting in the warmth of the sun. you you you Gently bringing movement back into the body, raising the eyes, looking around, coming out of meditation. See if now and then through your day you can just bring back awareness of warmth in the body, just for a moment. 

12:25 
Ah yes, my body is in fact warm right now. And then carry on with your activities. Have a great rest of your day. 
