
00:00 
Welcome to our third retreat in this trail exploring original love, exploring levels of well-being, support, and a kind of primordial loving kindness that is unconditional, and that is boundless. In our first two retreats we've been getting to know it somewhat systematically through generating some sense of kindness toward our experience, but there's a whole other side to it which we'll be delving into now. 

00:33 
Many moons ago as a young man I did some shamanic training and on the journeys that I did I would typically get sort of taken somewhere by some power animals to meet certain entities. I remember vividly one time I was taken into a cave deep underground beneath a British moorland and there I met this hooded figure who turned around slowly and turned out to be a skeleton. 

01:02 
It was rather alarming, but I followed the protocols and asked the skeleton who it was and it answered, I am your skeleton, and it suddenly hit me how little I recognized the support I had been given my entire life by my very bone structure. 

01:22 
And it kind of triggered a little cascade of support recognitions because my bones were made of minerals, so those minerals of the earth are part of me, and all the fluids of the earth are part of me in my cardiovascular system, my lymphatic system, and so on. 

01:41 
And of course I'm breathing the atmosphere of the planet all the time. So I'm made up of all these parts that owe everything to this planet, to this solar system, and so on. This kind of recognition is a great way of breaking... 

02:00 
down our sense of separateness and of carrying the whole burden of our lives on our own private shoulders. In Japan, in Zen, they talk about two kinds of power in practice. One is jiriki and the other is tariiki. 

02:18 
Jiriki means something like self-power. In other words, it's what energy and resources we ourselves bring to our practice. The fact that we do it more or less daily, the fact that we do it for a given period of time consistently, those are really down to us. 

02:36 
It's our energy and it's our intention that makes that happen. But there's also this other side to practice, tariiki. And tariiki, on the other hand, means other power. It's about recognizing other kinds of energy and power that sustain our practice, and not only that, that sustain us. 

03:00 
in all kinds of ways. It's the recognition that our lives are not individual and independent. They're partly that, but they're also much more the product of innumerable causes and conditions that we'll never get to the end of if we try to track them all down. 

03:19 
We are in some sense the embodiment of the Big Bang happening right now. This is where the Big Bang has got to, to each of us sitting wherever we are right now and engaging in this kind of meditation practice as we're about to do. 

03:38 
To recognize, in a sense, our debts, our indebtedness, and of course our connectedness to a trillion, trillion, trillion other factors. That's the heart of Tariki or other power. When it comes to tracking down, detecting an unconditional loving kindness or an unconditional love even in the fabric of our existence, one great way to do it is to just recognize the many kinds of support that we normally don't recognize and which are generating our experience here and now. 

04:17 
That's what we'll be exploring in this retreat. See you in the first sit. 
