
00:00 
Welcome back to another sit where we're going to be seeing if we can open up to all that we're being given every moment of our lives. Basically, that's the project at this point in our pathway. For many of us, it's actually much easier to offer a sense of love and kindness and appreciation and gratitude towards other things, and it's a different matter to really be receiving what we're actually being given. 

00:30 
But that is a crucial part of the whole process of practice, is learning that we're not only generating and offering, we're also being given, and being able to receive the gifts that are part of this life is an important way that we undermine our sense of isolation. 

00:54 
So let's come into our comfortable seated position and start to arrive, start to notice what it is to be present, to be just where you are right now, what's showing up for you just immediately right now. 

01:24 
There might be some sense of the body. By all means, arrange it as feels good for you. There might be some emotion tone within the body. Just let it be present. Be curious about it. And there might be thoughts arising. 

02:01 
Can you be curious about them as well? And in this sit, we're really going to be seeing if we can pay more attention to the underlying fact of all our experience, which is that consciousness is present. 

02:21 
So whatever thoughts might be moving through our minds, they're, as it were, swimming in the waters of consciousness. Likewise, whatever sense of the body we are experiencing, or of the soundscape, all of it is appearing within the waters of consciousness. 

02:47 
Let's just see if we can find a way to be aware of consciousness itself. as the medium within which all our experience appears. Can you imagine that your mind is like a great expanse of clear water that you're immersed in, and all your experience is swimming within the waters of consciousness? 

04:23 
you you you This consciousness, by means of which all experience appears, is a gift. It seems to come by itself. Where does consciousness come from? Is there even a way to approach that question? Is it possible to receive consciousness as a gift? 

07:49 
Is it possible to be grateful for it? you you you Is it possible that in some way the arising of consciousness is almost a pledge of some kind of love or belovedness that we inherit and are part of? When we relax into consciousness, is it possible to detect traces of a quality of love, of lovingness, within it? 

11:21 
Let's stay conscious, let's stay aware as we bring movement back into the body, as we look around, as we come out of this period of meditation. An invitation for today, why not just punctuate your day now and then with the question, am I aware? 

11:44 
You'll probably find that the moment you ask it, you are indeed aware. See if you can carry that awareness into the rest of your day. Wishing you well. 
