
00:00 
Welcome back. In this session, we're going to add another ingredient to the sense of pre-existing support already being given to us. I want to just note that we're kind of doing two things. One is simply recognizing the foundational elements of our life experience that are so necessary to be alive at all and that are freely being given to us. 

00:29 
And at the same time, we're also learning to settle back into experiencing them and feel the gift that they truly are. So there's a combination of things here. It's not just awareness of them, it's also really feeling the support that they're giving us. 

00:50 
Okay, let's settle back in for another meditation. Let your body come into the posture that is good for you. And let's bring relaxation into the body, all through the body. See if you can have a kind of cascade of releasing all through the body. 

01:22 
Begin with the jaw, letting the jaw go, and let it flow on down through shoulders and arms, chest and belly, hips and legs. And rest in awareness of the whole field of the body. And let's just take note that The body right now is warm enough to be alive. 

02:05 
We're receiving warmth from Sun, from whatever mechanisms may be in the space that we're in to provide heat. And that heat, that warmth, is in our bodies right now. So let's sense and appreciate warmth in the body. 

03:30 
We can notice that awareness is here, of course, without it no experience. Let awareness be steady and open and calm and let warmth in the body gently just show itself in awareness. See if you can rest with awareness of the whole body and just gently note which areas seem to be most warm. 

05:10 
you Resting in awareness of warmth in the body. Can we just kind of lightly invite recognition that warmth is being given to us? Wherever it's coming from, right now we're receiving warmth. Warmth is essential to our life. 

08:36 
Right now, it's being given. Let's appreciate it. Can we invite some gratitude for it? you Again, these key building blocks of our existence are being freely given right now, one of them being sufficient warmth. 

10:02 
Let's rest in appreciation of warmth. Let's stay aware of warmth in the body as we bring movement back into the body, as we look around the space we're in, sensing warmth in the body at the same time. 

11:23 
Let yourself breathe in a little more deeply, and exhaling, coming out of the meditation, but staying aware. In the next session we'll bring one more element into this appreciation of the support that is always being given to us. 

11:46 
Have a great rest of your day. 
