
00:00 
Welcome. Awakening to our original nature can strike anywhere, at any time, no matter what kind of condition we're in, no matter what kind of activity we're engaged in. It's only a recognition of what we have always been all along, so we're not actually making something happen when we awaken. 

00:23 
We're merely awakening to what has been all along. But nevertheless, it can be so helpful to meditate. Meditation can be a kind of laboratory where we go to the front line, the leading edge of our awareness, of our sense of things. 

00:42 
That's why meditation has been the sort of one prescription for those curious about this discovery. So let's come back into our meditation right now. Get your body in a comfortable upright position or a reclining position above all one where it's comfortable, where you can settle, where you can come home to experience here and now, actual sense experience right now. 

01:30 
you Let your arms go slack. Let your legs go slack. And let the whole body fill with looseness. And start to rest in the nature of things here and now. What if there's just no need for anything to be different at all? 

04:08 
What if you yourself are the true nature of things unfolding right now? you you you What if just this, this exact experience, appearing right now as it is, is the very original nature showing itself? 

06:33 
What if there's no gap between you and the ground of all being, the original nature? You, your experience, is exactly the ground of being. What if there's simply nothing you need to get to? What if there's just nothing you need to get? 

08:01 
Perhaps the only thing really is to let go of thinking we need to get something. you Could it be that there's a wellness, a goodness, already present? And that's why it's called original love. Once again, let's stay aware as we bring movement back into the body. 

10:28 
Let's stay aware as we look around and as we breathe in and breathe out. We've definitively reached a point on our pathway where we have enough foundational skills and expertise in meditation to be starting to let go of the idea that we're supposed to be finding something new and different than what's already here. 

10:55 
We can really be starting to let that go. All we're doing is coming to know what is here more intimately. Wishing you well. Have a great rest of your day. 
