
00:00 
Welcome back. In this sit we're going to once again be exploring non-separateness, going step by step, seeing whether we can find a way that the apparent center of our awareness, which we take to be usually our sense of self, is actually nothing other than part of the general field of awareness, which truly has no center. 

00:28 
And a reminder that we will be revisiting prompts like this, this kind of exploration, many times on our ongoing pathway, so no concerns at all if some of the invitations don't seem clear. There's many more opportunities to sit with them again. 

00:46 
Okay, let's get comfortable. Let's come into a sense of the body as we find our way to a comfortable seated position where stillness can be something like a luxury, a lovely thing to come into stillness. 

01:19 
So as we let the body become still, we also let it soften, let it loosen. We can put down our burdens, put down whatever weary loads we may have been carrying, set them aside, come into the quiet, come into the stillness, come into an intrinsic peace. 

01:55 
you Whatever we are aware of, awareness. is what allows us to be aware of it. Whether it's body sensation, soundscape, light, thoughts, emotions, all of them show up within awareness. Rest in awareness. 

04:21 
Let's see if we can make the little shift into being aware of awareness. Noticing that there is awareness throughout the field of body sensation. That there is awareness also in the space of the soundscape. 

04:46 
you There's no need for any effort here, effortlessly, allow awareness to become aware of itself, basically rest. and just allow awareness to be. Is it possible to let awareness suffuse all experience, to let it become like a soft up holstery, a cushioning, a blanket perhaps, that's all through experience? 

07:23 
you you you Any subtle sensations that seem to be part of a sense of self, can we let them be part of awareness, simply part of the weave of what awareness is aware of? Explore whether it is possible for any subtle traces of self to be fully allowed by awareness, fully welcomed, included and loved. 

10:57 
Staying aware, let's bring movement gently back into the body. Let's look around, see colours, receive colours, and inhale, and exhale. We'll be continuing our exploration of awareness and the sense of self in our next sit, meanwhile an invitation for the rest of your day, now and again, hit pause, take a breath, and ask yourself, am I aware? 

11:38 
Wait a moment, see what arises, and continue with your day. Wishing you well. 
