
00:00 
Welcome back. I just want to touch into that experience I described of coming over the bridge near Glasgow one more time. The critical shift was recognizing resistance and being able to be completely open to it. 

00:19 
No resisting of resistance. Then we can find that we are part of the weave of this whole moment. So it's really worth doing some practice around this and we'll do another session now where we're tuning into whatever subtle traces of resistance might be present and seeing if we can discover that they are in a sense part of everything. 

00:49 
Let's come into our seated position. I just want to add that very commonly some subtle resistance is present and that's a really good thing because to find it and to allow it can be a great gateway. As we start settling in, just let yourself recognize that you're here, that you've set aside time for stillness, you've set aside time for existence itself. 

01:41 
Not the agendas and to-do lists of our lives, but the very bare fact of existing at all. Let your jaw go. let shoulders and arms go, let the whole inner volume of the trunk of the torso go, let hips and legs go. 

02:24 
Might there be a way we can subtly join the fabric of this moment? Is it possible for awareness to pervade the whole sense field of this moment? Soundscape, body sensation, light, Allowing awareness to infiltrate the core of the body. 

04:58 
Are there any subtle traces of emotion tone? Are there any traces of subtle resisting? you If you're not finding any traces of resistance, that's great. Be with their absence, and if you are finding any, that's great too. 

06:23 
Is there a way to fully allow them to be arising? Is there any subtle sense that somehow this moment isn't quite okay as it is? If there are any micro-resistences to this moment, could it be okay for them to be present? 

08:54 
you you you What would it be like to fully allow any resistance to here and now, to be curious about it and just be with it? just check in with whatever degree of allowing is present for you and as we start to move the body see if you can stay with that allowing moving the torso around any way that feels good looking about coming back into the space that you're in you may be discovering an all-pervasive allowing already and if you're not no problem i just want to emphasize that we're not trying to be resistance free we're trying to allow whatever resistance is present wishing you a fine rest of your day 
