
00:00 
Welcome to another sit on this retreat exploring original love. What if everything is already made of original nature? If absolutely every last little scrap of experience, whether very difficult negative emotion, whether storms of thinking, whether intense greed and desire and craving, or strong resisting, all of it is made of original nature. 

00:30 
That's the promise of all these deep practice traditions. They encourage us to seek a true resolution of our human experience, but at the same time they tell us that that resolution is already here, so in a sense, don't be seeking it. 

00:51 
What are we to do? Well, this process of giving in to original love, to allowing original nature to just show itself through allowing our experience, for many, this process is the answer. So let's come back into a comfortable seated position. 

01:13 
Let's drop right in. Be still. Be quiet. And notice. Notice experience as it is. you There's an ancient injunction, stop and see, or we might say, be still and recognise. Let the body be still. Let the body fill with stillness. 

04:00 
And let the mind in turn also be filled with stillness. Let the heart be open. Notice how stillness allows the heart to open. you you Is there a way that stillness allows the heart simply to open and to show itself as it is? 

07:29 
Whatever energy there may be in the heart, however subtle the energy in the heart, what if that is an original heart, somehow a universal heart? What if stillness can show us that our own heart is somehow part of an original heart, a universal heart? 

09:04 
you Can we rest in whatever form original love is taking right now? staying aware as we gently bring some movement back into the body, as we open or raise our eyes and look around us and come back into the space that we're in. 

11:31 
In case anybody is wondering, just a quick note here that although I'm talking about original love in this retreat, I personally do not have a theistic belief system. I do believe that the very fabric of experience somehow is a kind of original love, nevertheless. 

11:51 
In spite of the challenges and troubles we will all face, it seems to me a great, great blessing and gift to be experiencing anything at all. Have a great rest of your day. 
