
00:00 
Welcome back. Just a quick reminder, in that metaphor from the Zen Master about ice and water, we are already water. It's not that we have to make something different happen. In a way, we only have to stop trying to make something different happen, and then we can discover that just the way things are, just the way our experience is, and just the way we are, with no matter what difficult emotions may be present, 

00:30 
we never have stopped being the water, or in other words, being this original nature, the ground of being, as some call it, that all phenomena share. That's the key realization that we know by the term awakening. 

00:51 
So it's really worth spending time with the boundaries, the limits of our allowing, and let those boundaries be where they are as they are. Okay, let's come into another sit. Let yourself get balanced, get relaxed. 

01:23 
Can you, kind of at will, fill your whole body with relaxing? Do you notice when we start to do that, that awareness by itself seems to switch on? We notice light. We notice sound. We notice subtle tingles and warmth in the body field. 

02:09 
Rest with experience. can we invite some curiosity about experience? Whatever may be arising around us, whatever may be present within us, what's it like to simply be curious, exploratory, be a kind of detective, seeing what we can find? 

04:37 
Let's again check the inward space of the torso, and explore there for a little bit. you What would it be like to completely allow whatever subtle wisps of sensation we may be finding within the torso? 

06:59 
What if nothing more is needed than being present to the inward volume of the torso? What if that is a thoroughly complete meditation? If there's anything we're finding that we somehow don't like, or subtly feel we'd rather not be present, what if that very thing is the cornerstone of our practice? 

08:39 
you What if, somehow, whatever we resist in meditation is the very thing that is aching to open us to our original nature? Just for a moment, can we practice universal allowing? Gently coming out of meditation, bringing movement back into the body, raising or opening the eyes, looking around, coming back to the space that you're in. 

12:13 
Now and then, through your day, I invite you to just pause for a moment, check in and ask yourself, am I allowing? And note what comes up. Have a great rest of your day. 
