
00:00 
Hi. There's a saying in Zen that all beings are by nature Buddha, as ice by nature is water. In other words, all of us are, as it were, ice cubes not realising they're made of water. I love this analogy, this metaphor. 

00:20 
It really points to the way that we solidify our sense of being a separate self, and that actually all we have to do is melt a little bit, and we'll find that we're not as separate and solid as we thought. 

00:33 
One of the key ingredients of that solidifying process is a subtle sense of resistance to the way things are. We may not know it's present, but very often, very commonly, we are in fact resisting how things are, and expecting or wishing or hankering after them being somehow slightly different. 

00:57 
If we can tune into that sense of resistance and let it be present, it has a chance to melt, and then we can melt, and we can find this original love, original nature. So let's work with this a little bit, coming into a comfortable seated position, and give yourself a chance to arrive. 

01:25 
you Notice that you've hit pause on your day. Whatever the ordinary concerns and activities are of your days, of your weeks, right now, you're allowed to set them aside. Coming back to something more fundamental. 

02:00 
mental. You just being you. Let yourself come back to just being you. Sensing the body, sensing whatever light is on your eyelids, if they're closed or whatever you're seeing before you, if they're open, and listening. 

03:34 
So we're granting ourselves a little oasis, a little gap, a space in our lives when we really come back to life itself, livingness itself. What is it to be before we're doing anything? What if this simple being is in fact the true nature of our life? 

05:10 
Being still, being aware, sensing the body, hearing some perceiving of light and resting with all of them. What would it be like if... You truly didn't have to do anything else, if right now there's no need to make anything different. 

07:42 
So, let's explore if there are any subtle traces of feeling that it's not okay for things to be just as they are. It's not okay not to be trying to make things different. Can you find any traces, however subtle, of resisting? 

08:04 
you you If you do find any traces of resisting, what are they like? Where are they in the body? What do they feel like? Can you be curious about them? Can you let them be present? Is there a way of allowing any subtle wisps of resistance to be part of the whole experience of this moment? 

11:28 
So take note of whatever level of awareness and accepting you've reached and stay with it as you bring movement back into the body. So, wiggling toes, wiggling fingers, looking around, breathing in, breathing out. 

11:51 
Lovely. So that was our first step in the process of tracking down resistance and discovering through it that we are not the ice cubes we take ourselves to be with our separateness, but in fact the general waters of original nature or original love. 

12:14 
See you in the next hit. 
