
00:00 
Welcome back. In this sip we're going to return to awareness of the body and see if we can taste body experience, body sensation, being one manifestation of original nature, something freely given. There's a great Tibetan master, Tsongkhapa, from the 14th century who said, this human body at peace with itself is more precious than the rarest gem. 

00:32 
This human body at peace with itself is more precious than the rarest gem. So let's take that as our cue for this sip. Let your precious body arrange itself in a way that is comfortable, but it likes. 

00:59 
And let it be still. Let the body be at peace. So we let our old friend, the jaw, release. And we might find shoulders and arms follow suit, releasing. Chest and belly likewise release. Hips release. 

01:34 
Legs release. Whole body coming into peace. you and let awareness settle in the whole body. Can you taste the whole…? field of body sensation as a warm cloud, let yourself rest back into it. Can the field of body sensation be something like a warm pillow that we're supported by, that we release back into? 

04:24 
you you you Notice that the field of body sensation is freely arising. Freely given. Nothing is needed by us for it to appear. Here it is. Let the field of body sensation include any traces of emotion, tone, of energies, of feeling that arise in the core of the body. 

06:53 
Let them be part of the whole field. Is there any gap between awareness and body sensation? Is there really any separation between body sensation and awareness? you In the great field of awareness that includes body sensation, perhaps we can detect that nothing more is needed. 

09:26 
It needs nothing. letting the body be aware of His Self. Gently bringing movement back into the body, remaining aware, looking around, absorbing the colours that you see with your eyes now, and coming out of meditation. 

11:51 
Great. Little by little, we release more and more sense of self into the field of awareness and of experience, until there's really no longer any gap between what we think of as me and my experience. 

12:09 
They become one. Next up, we'll go further into this non-separateness. Have a great rest of your day. 
