
00:00 
Welcome back. In our last sit, we were exploring awareness and the sense of self that might seem to occupy the middle of awareness, as it were. And we were seeing whether we might allow the sense of self, however it's showing up for us, to be absorbed by the awareness more generally. 

00:26 
And we're going to continue exploring the sense of self, and how real it really is, and how it relates to awareness. So, let's start right in. Coming into your seated position for meditation. Settling in. 

00:52 
Arriving. Starting to listen. And softening the body. And loosening the body. And opening the mind. Let the mind open like a flower. And rest in a general awareness. you Let's see if we can be curious about awareness. 

02:39 
What exactly is awareness? When we're looking at or studying awareness, what is it that's studying it, looking at it, exploring what it is? Isn't that more awareness? Is there an awareness that can be separate from awareness? 

05:09 
What exactly is the sense of self, the self who might be aware of awareness, is it really separate from awareness? you And how big is awareness? Where does it end? Can you find the borders and limits of awareness? 

06:40 
If you feel like you can, what's bigger? beyond those limits. Again, who is it looking at awareness? Is it really an awareness that's separate from the rest of awareness? Is it possible there's really just one awareness, and any sense of self is made of it? 

10:09 
What would it be like if myself and this awareness were one thing? What kind of love might that be like? Staying aware as we bring movement back into the body, as we come out of meditation and letting awareness include the objects and space around us now. 

11:39 
Great, we've been exploring the flavour of original love at its deepest, where we might catch glimpses of being inseparable from all else, and the great sense of belonging and of belovedness that that can bring. 

11:58 
Next up, we'll be dropping into an aware, restful mess. Have a great rest of your day. 
