
00:00 
Welcome to our final retreat in this trail on original love. We're going to be bringing together a lot of the pieces that we've been working with. So what do we mean by original love? Basically, it's a coinage that is a play on the term original nature, which is found in a lot of Buddhist schools. 

00:21 
Original nature means a kind of dimension or register or level of our experience that's always here, that's always here right in this very moment, in which we discover that we're not separate from anything. 

00:39 
It's a dimension of reality, of existence, where nothing is separate from anything else. Now, that might sound really strange and implausible. It's not actually a shift in the nature of physical reality as we know it. 

00:58 
Rather, it's a discovery about the nature of consciousness. It's in our very awareness, our consciousness, that we find there's this thing we've been missing, we haven't noticed, and suddenly we do. And it's all-encompassing, all-inclusive, and it is in fact the context in which all experience is arising. 

01:23 
And when we really get it clearly, we see that all experience is also part of it. So that original nature, when glimpsed or come to be known and sensed in a stable, consistent way, brings with it, as part of it, an incredible resolution of all our suffering. 

01:43 
It produces in the human system an extraordinary surge of well-being and a sense of the most profound belonging, and it feels very much like an unconditional love. So the term original love is a reference to original nature, but with a little more emphasis on the love side of it that is always part of the experience of it. 

02:11 
Maybe I'll give a little example. Once I was in a very difficult situation in life and I was on a work assignment and I was driving back in a rental car from an assignment I'd had in the Outer Hebrides actually on the west coast of Scotland and I was coming back to Glasgow Airport as I went over this great bridge to the west of Glasgow that crosses the gorge at that point of the River Clyde. 

02:37 
As I was coming over that bridge on this bright sunny day I was feeling a lot of complex emotion in me because of the situation in my life and suddenly I could see that these emotions were like a weave of many threads, like a kind of tapestry. 

02:59 
and that my resistance to them, the subtle resistance I hadn't really even known was there, completely disappeared. Or perhaps I should say that too was just another thread. And once that resistance was thoroughly recognized and allowed, once there was a real, almost I'd say kind of unconditional allowing, a sort of universal allowing, then I saw that everything, every part of the experience in that very moment, 

03:32 
was pouring up out of a kind of nothingness, out of nowhere, pouring into existence. Myself, my emotional experience, the glistening steering wheel in my hand, the road with the cars on it, and in the bright sun, the gleaming river clied below, the wooded hillsides of this gorge, all of it was emerging in one great kind of gift, one great generosity. 

04:08 
And that's what any moment of experience truly is. And I saw it in a sudden moment and thereafter was able to sort of tap into that. That universal well-being and that universal oneness of everything, and the recognition of the emptiness sort of behind it, would be a direct experience of original love. 

04:36 
Now yes, there were various strands to it, and actually we can see any one of those strands and sense the well-being, the fundamental, unconditional well-being, that it is a part of. But the key gateway can be having a difficult negative emotion, and really allowing it to be present, and allowing it to show itself, and allowing it to reveal that it is part of a much larger fabric. 

05:11 
Okay, so in this retreat we'll be using elements that we've been working on in recent retreats to see if we can open up glimpses of that kind of dimension of our existence. See you in the first sit. 
