
00:00 
Welcome to our final sit in this retreat and, indeed, on this trail. We've been exploring original love, an unconditional universal belonging, an intrinsic kindness that is, as it were, part of the experience of original nature, of awakening to the non-dual, all-inclusive reality that is always here and in a certain way we can never not be part of, but we don't commonly recognize it. 

00:35 
So, let's have a final sit now where we really just rest and see if we might gently become absorbed by an all-pervasive awareness that is filled with kindness. So, coming to a stable, settled, calm, comfortable position for your body and allowing the body to soften, to loosen, and to settle. 

01:20 
you let yourself settle let yourself land right here in the middle of this moment coming to rest and notice your own awareness notice that awareness is already here and that it is in a sense pervasive it's pervasive all through experience rest in awareness Is it possible that awareness might be filled with a kind of gentle, warm kindness? 

04:27 
Is it possible that awareness is always at rest, needing nothing? What if awareness and experience are one thing? What if awareness has always been here, has never not been here? What if awareness is not separate from you? 

08:01 
What if it's who you are? you you you What if this awareness right here is an infinite home, an infinite rest, an original love? Nothing to get, nothing to do, just original love. Just noticing awareness now as we bring movement back into the body, as we open or raise the eyes, as we look around and come out of meditation. 

11:48 
Well, congratulations on finishing another trail on the way. This also concludes a set of three trails exploring support generally, much more deeply than we have before. Each of these trails is its own building block, its own territory of practice, bringing us step-by-step closer to our original mind, our original nature, and an original love. 

12:22 
That is surely one of the greatest blessings we can ever know. Wishing you a very fine rest of your day. 
