
00:01 
Welcome back. In this set, we're going to be revisiting inward images in the mind, seeing inwardly. It doesn't matter whether images do in fact appear in the mind, we're simply going to be gazing at the kind of screen or on-board monitor, as it were, where images would appear when they do. 

00:25 
It's either going to be blank or there'll be some flickering ghostly images showing up. Either way is just fine. Our practice is to rest with an open awareness toward the screen of images that may appear. 

00:43 
So let's come into a comfortable, and really release, become more fluid, more open, and more loose, and rest in a sense of that openness, that looseness. Most people will find this particular practice easier with eyes closed, but it's okay to do it with eyes open if you prefer. 

01:25 
So starting to settle in, seeing what it's like to be still, perhaps already tasting a certain quiet. And we're going to be using the label, see in, to draw our attention, to foreground in our attention. 

02:00 
the experience of inward seeing of images in the mind does not matter whether any are appearing or not gaze into the space where they would appear if they did. And use the label like a little refrain see in see in Thank you. 

03:23 
Thank you. body at rest, body calm, at peace and gently gazing into the space where images might appear See in. See in. It really doesn't matter whether images are appearing or not, we're just resting with a soft inward gaze. 

05:05 
See in. Thank you. Again, there's no right or wrong way to do this. The invitation is simply to be gently aware of and resting with that space in the mind. where sometimes images appear. See in. gentle, open, restful, and gently gazing inward. 

08:08 
See in. Thank you. For sure, our attention may be drawn elsewhere. No problem. It's quite normal and natural when we notice it has gently bringing it back to the inward gaze see in Gazing into image space. 

10:31 
See in. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, let's bring movement back into the body, open or raise the eyes and look around, have a stretch. Great. I know for some people it can be harder to detect images in the mind, or they simply may not arise very much, and that's just fine. 

11:57 
However, this meditation was for you, I do understand that for some of you it may have been a little challenging, and please don't be too concerned, it's just another step on the beautiful long path of growth through meditation. 

12:16 
Have a wonderful rest of your day. weekend of the The first day of the 
