
00:00 
Welcome to the first sit in this new retreat in this new trail in which we're going to be exploring immediate sense experience as a pathway to deep flow states. Just a quick overview in the course of the retreats in this trail we're going to be moving from the six sense channels I just spoke about in the introduction to being aware of simply outward experience versus inward experience to being aware of any sense experience arising at all versus having no particular sense experience arise or having no particular pull towards sense experience and as we're on that journey we get closer and closer to a fundamental awareness that sits within itself completely aware but not needing to be pulled to any sense experience and that is really the heart of flow that's where we're sitting in the very heart of being aware without being pulled in any particular direction this retreat is all about those six primary channels getting to recognize them more clearly and rest deeply in them and we'll kick off with seeing so coming into a comfortable seated position can you let your body be set up in a relaxed way easy at ease loose maybe right away you might sense some kind of peace just a subtle trace perhaps of a kind of peace simply at giving yourself this time, 

02:03 
this time of quiet, of stillness, of coming home to just being. So I invite you to have your eyes open if you are comfortable with that and if not that's fine let them be closed but I'll be guiding in this sit as if eyes were open. 

02:34 
So resting with the field of vision, let it show itself almost like a flat screen divided by shapes, divided up into shapes, colours, light and dark. And we'll start using the label, C, C. Just resting with the field of vision, C. 

03:13 
So silently in the mind, every so often repeat the label to yourself, C. Letting the field of vision just be there as it is, doing its own thing, see, see, every few seconds repeating the label silently in the mind. 

04:58 
Thank you. No worries if your attention is drawn off elsewhere into thought or some other sense experience. When you notice that's happened, just gently bring it back to seeing. Pick up the label again. 

05:59 
See. See. Really seeing if we can just settle into seeing. See. See. Thank you. Thank you. Not looking for any special states, just resting with the experience of seeing, see, see. Thank you. Letting the whole body-mind system sort of calm down, become restful, as it just gives itself to seeing, see. 

10:42 
Nothing special, nothing out of the ordinary, just seeing. See. See. Thank you. And gently coming out of the sit, moving toes, wiggling fingers, raising the eyes, bringing movement into the upper body, perhaps swaying a little bit from side to side or rocking back and forth. 

12:14 
Great. So we've started tasting simple flow in an ordinary sense channel. Have a great rest of your day. 
