
00:01 
Welcome. We're embarking not just on a new trail, but on a new set of three trails, all of which will be taking us deeper into the beautiful and critical experience of flow. Traditionally in meditation, this has been known as samadhi, sometimes also as jhana. 

00:22 
Basically, it's a quality of experience where suddenly everything's easy and suddenly everything's fulfilled and something in us seems to recognize that it's come home to itself. It's as if we have suddenly returned to something inside us that is always okay. 

00:44 
It's a very beautiful experience and it does have different flavors and we'll be exploring a variety of them. But what I want to share right now is the importance of mindfulness, of being aware of our sense experience both inward and outward as it's arising here and now as a portal to flow. 

01:09 
It's as if really the deeper purpose of mindfulness is actually to help unlock flow within us. So we're going to be using methods we've touched on before in this pathway and we really believe in the wisdom of revisiting things again and again. 

01:29 
That's how we start to embody them and make them our own and many times when we do an exercise that we've done before, it will be quite new when we come back to it sometime later. So we've already done this kind of labeling practice of being aware that our present moment experience does essentially fall into a mere six categories actually when we're meditating. 

01:55 
Basically, we have three outward sense channels that are open and available, that's seeing, hearing, and sensing the physical body or physical sensations in the body. And then we have three sort of parallel inward sense channels. 

02:12 
That's hearing talk in the mind, seeing images in the mind, and feeling emotion sensation in the chest or lower in the torso. So to be mindful is to be aware of which of those six channels we're aware of at any moment. 

02:34 
Actually, this is a different method from many approaches to beginning meditation that are taught where you really encourage just to focus on the breath the best you can and kind of cling on for dear life. 

02:47 
And very often you'll be tugged away from the breath and get frustrated about it. And what you've got to do is notice that you've been distracted and then try to get back on board the sort of life ring of the breath and cling on for dear life. 

03:03 
I think this other approach is more helpful. It's infused by various sources, one, the mindfulness teacher Shinzen Young's approach. I remember the first time I tried it out actually, I was in the Zendo early one morning and I just started labeling see, see for seeing outwardly. 

03:26 
And it was quite amazing how quickly I got very deeply absorbed in simply seeing. Then I switched to hearing, hearing outwardly and using the label here. And that too took me into a very deep intimacy with the experience of sound. 

03:45 
And I worked my way through all the six channels of sense experience and found it really a powerful, marvelous practice for coming to know what was actually going on in my very condition of being at any time. 

04:03 
So that's what we're gonna be doing. We're gonna be using these labeling practices to go deeply into our actual experience as we get more absorbed in it and start finding deep flow right in the midst of ordinary experience. 

04:21 
See you in the first sit in the first retreat coming right up. 
