
00:02 
Welcome back. We're about to go into becoming more clearly aware of the inner sense channels now. This is all about inner talk, inner video and seeing of images, and the inner experience of emotion sensation in the body. 

00:24 
Of course we've looked at these before quite a bit on our pathway. The difference now is that we're going to be using them again as pathways into deeper flow states. And we do that simply by resting in awareness of them, resting with them. 

00:44 
And right now we're still in our initial tour of our six primary sense channels outward seeing, hearing and feeling the body, inward seeing of images, hearing of thoughts or talk in the mind and feeling of emotion tone in the body. 

01:05 
So let's get into a comfortable seated position. Give yourself a moment to settle in to come into awareness as we become still. Sometimes it's almost like coming home to a quiet calm place that's always ready to receive us and we just settle in, letting the body become loose. 

01:53 
And a kind of openness may show up in the body, a loose openness, an ease. So let's start listening to the space in which talk arises in the mind. We may hear some talk, we may not hear any talk, but we let ourselves sit in openness to that mind space where talk arises from time to time. 

02:31 
And we're going to use the label here in, because this is about a kind of inward hearing. Here in. Here in. Bye. Sometimes they'll, sometimes there'll be snippets of talk or long commentary going on. 

03:50 
We just listen to it, hear it. Sometimes there'll be a kind of inner quiet. We're listening to that. And our label is Hear In. Hear In. Again, letting the body be loose, at ease, and just listening in to inner talk space. 

05:20 
Here in. Let the label be a kind of refrain. Here in. Thank you. Restful, settled, listening inwardly, herein, herein. Really, not asking anything of ourselves, just resting here and listening inwardly, and let that listening settle us, calm us, hear in, hear in. 

08:04 
Thank you. Thank you. Letting the practice be very simple. Just inward listening. Hear in. Hear in. Here in, here in. Thank you. Thank you. Let's gently bring some movement back into the body, looking up, perhaps looking around you, taking a deeper in-breath and out-breath. 

11:35 
Great, we're still in our tour, so to speak, of the foundations of basic mindfulness, and also starting to get a sense of how they may be able to draw us into deeper states of absorption and flow. All of this will help us as we go further in the practice of mindful flow. 

12:01 
Next up we'll be revisiting inward images in the mind. Have a great rest of your day. Thank you. 
