
00:00 
Welcome back. So in this sit, we're going to be completing our initial tour of the six primary sense channels, seeing and hearing and feeling the body outwardly and seeing and hearing and feeling the body inwardly. 

00:18 
In this one, basically we're tuning into a motion tone in the body as distinct from physical sensations in the body. So let's come into a comfortable seated position, arranging the body, whether it's upright or supported and reclining in such a way that we can really let go. 

00:42 
Release, get a lovely sense of looseness all through the body, arms loose, legs loose, hands loose, feet loose, torso loose, head loose. Whole body easy, comfortable. And now we're going to very lightly tune into the inner space of the torso. 

01:24 
We don't need to force this, it's a gentle thing, just a general sense of the torso and its inner volume or space. And how it is, it might be quite open and spacious, it might have subtle tensions in it. 

01:50 
It's all good. We're just being neutrally aware. Mindful, equational. animus witnesses. And we use the label now, feel in, feeling how the body is doing on a subtle emotional level, just developing an awareness of emotion tone in the torso. 

02:22 
Feel in, feel in. . Thank you. Let there be a certain kindness and patience in your awareness as we do this practice. Everything's welcome as it is, and there is a warm-hearted flavor of awareness that we have actually become pre-installed with, that can gaze at emotion tone very compassionately. 

03:58 
Feel in. Feel in. We might find subtle wisps of sensation, little energies of warmth or heat or tightness or density. We don't need to do a thing about them. Just observe, or we might find spaciousness, openness, calm, feel in. 

05:31 
Thank you. Thank you. Letting the body be loose, at rest, and at ease, and opening up an awareness of the inward space of the torso, and allowing it to be just as it is. Feel in. Feel in. If, at any time, something seems a little uncomfortable and uneasy for us, just come back to awareness of the physical sensations of the body and use the label feel. 

08:05 
When you're ready, come back to feel in. Thank you. Whatever we're finding, the key thing is just to be with it and fully allow it and let the use of the label help you with that. Feel in. In the last part of this sit, I invite you to just drop the label, sit in a wide open awareness, perhaps aware of soundscape, of physical body sensations, or simply of being. 

11:11 
Thank you. Let's gently bring some movement back into the body, swaying from side to side, raising the eyes, breathing in, breathing out, coming out of meditation. Well we've just completed a tour of the six primary sense channels and that's our foundation for everything else we'll be doing through the rest of this trail. 

12:10 
The journey's going to be about getting deeper and deeper into absorption and flow, simply through the gateway of immediate present sense experience. In our last sit in this retreat, coming right up, we're going to be simply resting in an open awareness, wishing you a fine rest of your day. 
