
00:00 
Welcome back to our final sit in this retreat that has been kind of introducing us once again to the basic building blocks of our mindfulness, the three primary outward sense channels and the three primary inward sense experiences. 

00:17 
In this sit I think we've earned a nice rest so I'm going to be inviting us to rest in an open awareness and this awareness is open to all six of those possible kinds of sense experience and if you like you can note to yourself which channel is active at any time but you can also simply rest in a wide open awareness. 

00:50 
So let's come into our seated position once again letting the body be loose and see if you can allow a kind of ease and peace to settle on you and around you and within you. Thank you. Let yourself be relieved of any burden or need to try to do anything. 

01:30 
Really let this be a time of peace and rest and ease. Thank you. The human body, at ease, is more precious than the most precious gem," said an old Tibetan lama. The human body at peace. Thank you. Resting, simply being aware. 

02:24 
Imagine that nothing needs to be any other way than the way it is. Thank you. Sometimes we're aware of a sound, sometimes of a body sensation, either emotional or physical, sometimes of talk in the mind, sometimes of an image, sometimes of sight itself. 

03:51 
All are fine. In the practice of open awareness, we're both openly aware of whatever sense experience is present, and we're open to it. We don't mind what it is. Thank you. If you're curious or you find it helpful, by all means, use the little labels to be aware of what's going on. 

06:17 
See here feel, see in here in feel in, or just rest openly. Letting ourselves rest and letting ourselves be wide open, at rest and openly aware. What if it's really okay for things to be as they are? 

08:44 
Just now we can let experience be Thank you. resting, being, aware, open. Wiggling toes, moving the fingers and thumbs, giving yourself a little stretch, raising the eyes, looking around, coming out of meditation. 

11:13 
Congratulations on completing this first retreat in our journey through mindfulness into flow. In the next retreat we'll be leveling up to going into deeper flow rather more swiftly. Have a great rest of your day. 
