
00:01 
Welcome back. In this sit we're going to proceed with our review of the primary sense channels, this time going to sensations in the body that are physical, physical sensations of the body. Could be warmth that we sense in the body, could be tingling, could be a subtle buzz here and there, aches and pains perhaps, pressure certain parts of the body, contact in the skin in other parts and so on. 

00:35 
Just noticing whatever physical sensations are present. So let's come into a comfortable seated position. Let your body find its way to stillness. Let it go, let it release, let the body be somehow open and loose, relaxed at ease. 

01:11 
We're going to use the label feel to bring ourselves to feelings of a physical nature in the body. Feel. So once again picking up that label silently voiced in the mind every few seconds, a kind of refrain that helps our attention be primarily open to physical sensations in the body. 

01:43 
Feel. Feel. Thank you. There's really no right or wrong way to do this, we're just inviting and encouraging awareness to be open to body sensations. pressure, contact, warmth, et cetera, feel, feel. It's perfectly okay if attention gets drawn to other kinds of experience. 

04:13 
When we notice that's happened, we just come back to the label feel, feel, encouraging attention to be foregrounding physical sensations in the body. Feel. Thank you. Not looking for anything special to happen, just restfully aware of the body. 

05:42 
Feel. Thank you. Feel. Feeling the body. Feel. Resting and feeling the body, just as it is, feel. Thank you. sensing the body, feeling the body, feel. Really, at ease with the body, feel. Lovely, let's bring some movement back into the body, perhaps gently rocking, fore and aft, swaying side to side, raising the eyes and looking around, coming out of the meditation. 

11:27 
So great, we're halfway through the foundations of everything we're going to be doing in this trail. We've opened up awareness of the three primary outward sense channels and next up we'll be turning to the three primary inward sense channels to complete the foundations that we really need for this exploration of mindfulness developing into flow by awareness of immediate sense experience here and now. 

12:00 
Have a great rest of your day. Thanks for watching! 
