
00:00 
Okay, welcome back. So we're going to have another sit where we're learning to track where our attention is, whether it's gone to inward experience or outward experience. So let's begin right away. Come into a comfortable seated position. 

00:19 
Once again, letting your limbs, all four limbs, relax. Arms and legs at ease and let them show the way for the noticing that you're giving yourself this special little space of meditative quiet. A really healthy thing to do. 

01:08 
So let's start off with a little bit of directive labelling. Out. Out. Just recognising outward sense experience right now. Out. Out. Thanks for watching! And now let's swivel our attention to that subtle pivot to inward sense experience. 

02:36 
In In Thank you. And now I invite you to use whichever of the two labels, out and in, seems to draw you into a more settled, aware, peaceful state. Whichever one it is, it's probably the more accurate one, reflecting where your attention more deeply is. 

03:59 
So try out for a little bit, and then try in for a little bit, and stay with whichever seems to draw you into a deeper, clearer state. Thank you. Thank you. Again, resting with whichever label seems more appropriate or helpful. 

05:21 
Out, try it for a little bit, if it seems right, stay with it. In, try that for a little bit and stay with it, if it seems right. Thank you. If you're getting the sense that there is inward activity, stay with the label in. 

06:37 
If you're getting the sense that you're open to outward experience, stay with the label out. Either is equally good. Resting with the label out, meaning there's outward sense experience going on, or resting with the label in, because there's inward sense experience going on. 

08:59 
Either in... or out, in or out. And gently bringing some movement back into the body, raising the eyes, coming back to the space that you're in, coming out of the meditation. So I'd like to encourage you to try something in the course of your day. 

10:30 
At any point, just hit pause and be aware, is there inward activity? If so, label in. Are you aware of outward experience? If so, label out. Have a great rest of your day. 
