
00:01 
Welcome to this new retreat on using mindfulness to get us into flow states and we're using this form of mindfulness practice where we become aware of what's going on in our whole field of experience in the immediate moment and doing that by becoming aware of the activity of our six primary sense channels while meditating. 

00:27 
That's to say outward seeing hearing and feeling and inward seeing hearing and feeling. And in this retreat we're going to be sort of leveling up to the point where we're not so concerned with the individual channels but simply whether experience is primarily outward or inward in our awareness at any particular time. 

00:53 
There's a wonderful Australian philosopher, Peter Godfrey Smith, who's written a terrific book called Other Minds, the Octopus, the Sea, and the Deep Origins of Consciousness. He's a keen amateur scuba diver and he describes in the book a certain point where he's watching a giant cuttlefish hovering in the water very still and the cuttlefish has this capacity to kind of irradiate its skin with all kinds of colors and lights. 

01:29 
It's an extraordinary thing that they can do. They have these cells called chromatophores that can become many different colors. And he's entranced as he watches this magnificent creature just go through an incredible display of color as it's hovering quite still. 

01:51 
And he wonders, is it dreaming? Is it simply resting and basking in some inward well-being that shows that shows up on its surface in these great displays of color, or what, I feel it's a very good analogy for what happens to us when we're in restful flow. 

02:13 
It's as if we're showered by experience, these different qualities of sense experience, but we ourselves are resting in a beautiful, clear, open awareness that can be aware of all the different sense experiences going on, but rests in a stillness, as if showered by this display of sense experience. 

02:40 
So right now in this retreat, we're gonna be learning to rest in an awareness that is open to, but not caught by, sense experience. In other words, our mindfulness has reached the point of flow where we are fully open to sense experience, but none of it entraps us, where we're just bathing in its various qualities. 

03:15 
The means by which we're going to get there is by going now from the first level, which we did in the last retreat, where we're calling out the individual channels, to the next level, where we're simply calling out whether our experience is outward or inward. 

03:32 
I do this a lot myself and I find it incredibly helpful. If I sit down and, you know, there's, it's been busy times and there's a lot on my mind, I want to just know, oh yeah, the inward system is active. 

03:48 
And conversely, I also want to know when the outward system is active. And that's all that we need to do in order to come into deep, restful, mindful flow. So that's where we're going in this retreat. 

04:04 
We've got our first sit coming right up and I really hope you'll enjoy this next phase of the journey. See you in the first sit. 
