
00:01 
Hi, a quick word on the practice we've been doing and are going to continue to do for a little bit before we dive in. The point of this practice of getting to recognize when the outward sense system is active and when the inward sense system is active is that it's a wonderful way of coming to a place of deep peace, of a calm, attentive awareness where we can know and recognize sense experience but we're not drawn into it. 

00:40 
We become something like that giant cuttlefish that Peter Godfrey-Smith, the scuba diving philosopher admired so much, hovering in the depths of the ocean with this shimmering display of sense experience going on around it and we remain calm and aware. 

01:01 
So let's come into our next sit. Get yourself set up comfortably in a posture that's good for you. Thank you. Give yourself a moment to settle in, to arrive. Recognize that you're giving yourself this time to come back to your actual life, to the very living, existing, that's at the heart of your being. 

01:49 
Throat goes soft, shoulders also soft, and let the whole body go soft. Thank you. Let the soundscape gently start to become present to you, and let's launch into the sit with the label out, out, repeated in the mind like a refrain every few seconds to orient us to outward sense experience. 

02:33 
Out. Thank you. So now let's stay with out, unless we're not really registering outward experience clearly, in which case there's probably some inward experience going on, and switch to the label IN, and see if it does help you notice inward sense experience thoughts and feelings that might be going on. 

05:00 
Now, let you be the assessor of whether to use out or in. We can get to a place where it doesn't matter so much which label we're using, where either can bring us to a place of peace and awareness, out or in. 

05:27 
Thank you. Resting with our sense experience, whether it's outward facing or inward. whether it's physical body or sounds, or more thoughts and feelings, resting with either out or in. Letting ourselves come to rest, settling into a peaceful place, out or in. 

08:33 
Thank you. You may find it's okay to use the labels rather sparingly, only now and then, or it might be more helpful to keep a steady refrain. Thank you. In the last part of this sit, perhaps see what it's like to drop the label and just rest in a calm, abiding, peaceful awareness. 

11:25 
bringing some little movements back into the body, raising the eyes, looking around and coming out of the meditation. Great. Just a quick note, we're still in this process of getting to recognize sense experience at this higher level, whether it's inward or outward. 

11:50 
And that's a step towards something else that we'll be getting to in our next retreat. For now, we'll keep on with this current practice, but with a slightly different emphasis in the next sit. Have a great rest of your day. 
