
00:02 
Welcome to our final sit in this retreat. In this one we're going to be bringing in another label, the word rest. Basically we'll be using rest as our refrain, our repeated label, and now and then if it seems appropriate we can turn to the label out and turn to the label in when outward experience is clearly quite present and strong or when inward experience is arising. 

00:36 
Okay so let's get into a comfortable seated position. Make any adjustments you need to. Sway a little from side to side, just very small movements. Noticing the body as it gently moves from side to side perhaps just half an inch each way and letting the movements get even smaller and coming to rest, stillness, and letting a restful awareness emerge, resting in the midst of experience. 

01:42 
So we're going to start using the label rest as a kind of refrain every few seconds in a cadence that feels good for you. rest rest Thank you very much. Thank you. Now, sometimes outward experience may be drawing our attention quite clearly, and then we can pick up our familiar label, out. 

03:17 
And sometimes inward experience, thoughts and feelings may be active, and then we go to the label in. Otherwise, stay with rest. Gently, using the label REST, unless there's a clear call toward outward sense experience or inward sense experience, REST. 

04:46 
Thank you. really allowing ourselves to find a place of calm, and peace, and rest, and welcoming, acknowledging. outward experience when it arises, and likewise, inward experience. Rest. Rest, or when appropriate, out or in. 

07:51 
Thank you. Thank you. Rest, inviting us to taste a kind of calm abiding, and very open to outward experience and inward experience as they arise. Thank you. Thank you. And now, dropping all labels and simply resting in awareness. 

10:41 
Gently bringing movement back into the body. Let's sway side to side as we come out of the meditation. Eyes raised now. Perhaps having a little stretch. Congratulations on finishing another retreat on the way. 

11:07 
Next up, we'll be taking this practice even deeper. Looking forward to seeing you in the next retreat. Have a great rest of your day. 
