
00:00 
Welcome back. In this sit, we're going to basically do a repeat of what we did in the last one with a slightly different rhythm and cadence, but learning to be open to the outward system and to the inward system with a kind of equal non-preferential awareness. 

00:24 
So let's start right away. Let's come into a comfortable seated position. Again, if you'd like to, try having your eyes open with the gaze lowered. Give yourself a moment to adjust and move the body any way you like as you're coming toward a state of rest and of peace and letting a certain kind of calm settle around you. 

00:59 
I always feel that there's some slightly mysterious way in which as we settle down, it's almost as if the space around us also seems to settle and become calmer. Thank you. So let's allow the body to relax, letting the jaw go, letting shoulders go, letting the seat and the hips settle and relax, letting the arms and legs simultaneously become floppy. 

01:49 
And let's pick up the label out as a refrain silently voiced in the mind to steer our attention toward the outward sense system of physical body sensations and sight and sound. Out. Out. Thank you. Staying with the outward system, seeing, hearing physical body sensations, whichever of them is calling or drawing our awareness, out, out. 

04:28 
Now, let's open to the inward system, thoughts and feelings. By the way, it doesn't matter if any are arising, we're open to the space where they would arise if they do. In. In. Thank you. staying with the inward system just getting to know what's going on whether it's restful, open, peaceful whether there is some content arising in in Thank you. 

07:05 
And, coming back to the outward system, resting with our outward facing sense experience. Out. Out, out. Thank you. And, again, making that small, subtle pivot to inward sense experience. in in in Thank you. 

11:27 
wiggling fingers and toes, rocking gently backwards and forwards with the upper body, opening the eyes or raising the eyes, coming out of meditation. Great, so we're proceeding on this path of getting more facility with both inward and outward sense experience, being objects of awareness that do not interrupt our clear, open awareness. 

11:59 
Have a great rest of your day. 
