
00:00 
Welcome. I just want to point out that this is rather an important point we've arrived at on our pathway, where rather than simply guiding you, I'm inviting you to use a technique in the way that suits you in the moment. 

00:21 
In other words, there's a little more being asked of you, the meditator, in discerning the best use of a technique for yourself rather than me simply sort of telling you what to do. It may be a little bit challenging at first, but over time it becomes very effortless and restful. 

00:41 
And in fact, we can become something like that giant cuttlefish hovering in the ocean and parading its display of colors. So again, in this sit, we'll be working with these two labels in and out even more at your own discretion this time. 

01:01 
So let's come into a comfortable seated position, finding the flavor of stillness, tasting stillness, letting a kind of mantle of rest, of calm, fall over you, settle on you, gently becoming present and letting the whole body be bathed in ease, restful body. 

01:52 
Okay, let's open up to either the label out and outward experience or the label in and inward experience. I'd encourage starting out with out and if it doesn't seem to be a fit, moving to in. You You Thank you. 

03:18 
If you feel you've found a groove with one of those two labels, just stay with it. And if you're not so sure you have, switch to the other label. If you're finding that you're in a restful, clear awareness, just keep going as you are. 

04:39 
And if it's not so clear or you're not sure, try picking up the other label. Thank you. Either using the label out, because we're aware of outward experience, or using the label in, because there's awareness of inward experience. 

06:55 
Resting with either in or out. In, in, or out, out. Thank you. In or out. and gently bringing movement back into the body, opening or raising the eyes, having a stretch, and coming out of the meditation. 

10:31 
So one of the things that I really appreciate about this practice is that it doesn't prefer outward experience over inward experience. It's not saying there's something wrong if thoughts and feelings are arising, not at all. 

10:46 
We're simply aware of them as they do arise just as we are aware of outward experience when it's arising, and awareness of either of them can draw us into deep flow. Have a wonderful rest of your day. 
