
00:00 
Welcome to our first sit in this new retreat. So, as I mentioned in the introduction, we're going to be exploring what it's like to simply be aware of the outward sense system, and of the inner sense system, and know which one is more active at any time. 

00:24 
Just a reminder, the outer system is seeing, hearing and feeling the body, and the inner system is basically thoughts and emotions. By doing that, we can come to reside and rest in a very clear, peaceful awareness that's wide open to both. 

00:47 
So, let's start right away, come into a comfortable seated position. You might try this sit with eyes open and the gaze lowered, if you'd like. Be aware of your feet on the floor. Be aware of the seat of your chair. 

01:15 
Be aware of the whole upper body as a kind of space hovering, as it were, over the seat. Let your jaw relax. Let shoulders and arms and hands go limp. Let legs be limp. And just get a sense of the whole body right now, being still, and not needing to do anything. 

01:59 
Just take a deep breath. Tasting a simple rest So let's now just call out the outward sense system that's to say feeling body sensations and or being aware of color light and dark in the field of sight and or being aware of sounds around us And we're going to use the simple label out Out repeated as a kind of refrain every few seconds or so to train and guide our attention toward any of the experiences in the outward sense field out out out Now, 

03:57 
let's turn our attention to the inward sense system, thoughts and subtle emotion energy. We'll pick up the label in. In. We're just neutrally observing how the inner system is right now. In. Thank you. 

05:05 
Thank you. Now let's see if we can redirect attention to the outward system, sight, sound, physical body, any one or more of them, out, out. Thank you. Thank you. And now let's come back to openness and awareness of the inward sense system, in, in. 

07:50 
And once again, let's now turn attention toward the outer system. Out. Out. Thank you. Coming back to the inward system. In. In. Thank you. Thanks for watching! And again returning to the outward system. 

10:12 
Out. Out. Gently wiggling toes and fingers and bringing movement into the upper body, big inhale, big exhale and coming out of the meditation. Great. By oscillating between the two systems, inward and outward, we're gradually going to get to know the very awareness that is the same regardless of whether the experience is more outward or inward. 

11:51 
It's that awareness that is open to both and the same in both that we want to get to know more and more intimately. Have a great rest of your day. 
