
00:00 
Welcome back. Once again we're still in this world of practice where we're tracking inward experience versus outward experience, being aware of which is more prominent and clearer and more salient at any time. 

00:19 
In this sit we're going to be resting with outward experience except when that doesn't seem to be so easily available, in which case we'll switch to inward experience. But the baseline will be outward experience. 

00:35 
So once again let's get comfortable. Come into your either balanced upright position or perhaps support it, perhaps even reclining posture, and let everything go. Release, release all through the body. 

01:00 
Shoulders sinking, settling, arms loose, hips loose, legs loose, body at rest, and out of that restfulness emerges a slightly different quality of awareness. Feel the soundscape coming to, as it were, say hello, showing up, emerging. 

01:45 
Feel the physical sensations of the body. Thank you. and sense some amount of light, dark, color. in the field of sight, whether your eyelids are open or closed. Resting with the outward sense system. 

02:14 
Out. Out. Thank you. Thank you. Using this little refrain of out as a label in the mind and resting with outward experience, unless you're finding you're drawn away from it, in which case, pick up the label in and become aware of what's present in the inward system. 

03:45 
Out. Out. Letting a certain kind of peace emerge, if it wants to, resting as a baseline with the outward sense-feels, and going toward the inward sense-feels, if they seem to be out. Active. Out. Thank you. 

06:14 
out, out, unless there's some inward activation, in which case, in. A reminder that there's no preference for one over the other, we're just deciding to foreground outward sense experience in this sit, but happily go to inward when it's more salient out. 

08:14 
Thank you. Out, out, and feel free to explore longer gaps between the repetitions of the label. Thank you. Out Unless in is more fitting Out Okay, let's gently start coming out of the meditation, bringing movement back into the body, looking around... 

11:16 
taking a deeper inhale and exhale. Great. In our final sit of this retreat, coming up next, we'll be getting a taste of the next phase of this practice, which will be the main theme of the third retreat of this trail. 

11:37 
Meanwhile, please do feel free to check in with your experience whenever you have a spare moment during the day. Just pause, check outward experience, scan inward experience, and carry on with your day. 

11:54 
Thank you so much. Thanks for watching! 
