
00:00 
welcome back. In this sit we're going to be doing something similar to what we've been doing in the last two sits with one important difference. Then instead of using the labels in and out to guide and encourage our attention either toward the outward system or the inward system, we're going to be using them responsibly. 

00:24 
That's to say we'll be tracking where our attention is going and using the labels in response to where it's gone, whether it's inward or outward. I'm going to be guiding us, leading us in how to do that, and you'll pick it up by yourself and go with it with reminders from me throughout the course of the meditation. 

00:51 
So let's start by getting in a comfortable seated position. As always it's quite good to tune in with the body as we get going, so be aware of how your body is set up, of the posture it's in, and let it be one in which you can really relax. 

01:16 
Letting shoulders and arms be slack and let them sort of dangle. Let your legs also feel like they're dangling. Feel your feet on the floor. Check that your ears are balanced. Let the jaw release and sort of hang by itself. 

01:49 
Let tongue be slack. Great, and we'll kick this off with the outward system. So we'll pick up the label out, gently repeating it in the mind every so often, every few seconds. Out. Turning to the outward sense feels. 

02:18 
Out. Out. Thank you. You may already have noticed that sometimes, even when we're intending to be aware of the outward sense fields, somehow we're not. When that's the case, it surely means that there's inward activation going on. 

03:36 
So we would then switch to the label IN and start being aware of the inward system. So carry on with OUT until you notice your attention is not with the outward system, then pick up the label IN. We're learning to be more aware of whether our attention is whether the outward system or the inward system. 

05:06 
to label your best guess at where your attention is. And if it doesn't seem to be right, go to the other label. So out for outward experience, in for inward experience. Thank you. Thank you. So, once again, see if you can track which system is most active and label accordingly out if it's the outward system in when it's the inward system. 

07:34 
A reminder that our mindful awareness really doesn't care which system it is, and we're trying to learn its attitude where we have no preference, we're just seeking to be aware of which way our attention is being drawn, outwardly or inwardly, and labeling accordingly. 

07:57 
Out or in? Thank you. If at any time you're not quite clear or sure what's happening with your awareness, pick up the label out and just stay with out and see if it seems to be appropriate and that you are aware of outer experience. 

09:21 
And if you're not, then pick up the other label in and see if that feels like a fit. In the last part of this sit, let's all pick up the label out. Out. Resting with outward experience. Out. Thank you. 

11:43 
Gently swaying from side to side, raising the eyes, and coming out of the meditation. So I know this can be a little confusing and challenging at first, but we're going to be practicing it a fair bit in this retreat, getting more facility with it. 

12:04 
And in time, it can become very easy and very restful and can really bring us to beautiful states of deep absorption, even while we're having perfectly ordinary experience. Have a great rest of your day. 
