
00:02 
Welcome to another sit. We're continuing our exploration of recognizing when sense experience of any kind is arising and noticing when it's not arising or whether it's arising very faintly and subtly and our attention is not drawn to it. 

00:24 
We're going to switch things up a little bit in this sit and try a new label which is rather than rest gone and the word gone here means the pull of sense experience has gone. So let's come into our comfortable seated position. 

00:46 
Let your body adjust any way it wants to as you're finding your way in. Hands are resting most likely either in the lap or on the thighs and let your fingers go limp and let your arms really be at rest. 

01:14 
Let the throat relax. Let the jaw relax. Let the legs be at rest. Really no tension or activation in the legs or the arms. They're hanging, they're dangling and let the whole body be at rest. Thank you. 

01:53 
resting in the context of the space that we're in. And now we're going to start to notice whether sense experience is arising in awareness, in which case we label yes, or whether really no or very slight sense experience is arising within awareness. 

02:22 
And then we label gone. So let's start with yes, sort of searching for sense experience, or just being aware of what sense experience is present, whether outward or inward, yes, yes. Thank you. And now we're going to start to notice when there are gaps, when really no sense experience is present or it's only subtly present. 

04:01 
And then we label gone. So it's either yes or gone. Thank you. Thank you. yes or gone and you can be the judge of which it is sometimes a sense experience might be present but then there's a little switch that happens and it becomes somehow faint or subtle so we then move from yes to gone Thank you. 

06:33 
Any time you're not quite sure which is the appropriate label, just try one of them and stay with it and see what happens. yes yes or gone gone Thank you. Thank you. Gone, gone, or yes. Thank you. Thank you. 

09:56 
Yes, or gone? Let's gently sway from side to side, raise the eyes, take a deeper inhale and an exhale and come out of the meditation. As we proceed with this practice, please feel free whenever you're not sure to just go with one of the labels and stay with it until it's clear that you might be ready to try the other one. 

11:32 
At a certain point, the labels become slightly less important than the experience that we're actually having as we go deeper into flow and absorption. Have a great rest of your day. 
