
00:01 
welcome to our final sit in this retreat. In this meditation we'll be doing what we've been doing in the previous ones but just a little less. So the invitation is to use the labels as sparingly as you like. 

00:20 
Just when you feel they would help you, you pick up either new or gone and you might have long spells where you're not using any label at all, you're just resting in a clarity that's open both to sense experiences that may arise and to their absence. 

00:46 
Okay let's see how this goes and come into a comfortable seated position for meditation. Give yourself a moment to tune into awareness of the body in its posture and letting a softness and looseness suffuse the whole body. 

01:22 
Letting the body feel open, relaxed, loose at peace. And we'll start out with some use of our labels when there is sense experience, new, when sense experience has gone quiet, gone. Thank you. So the invitation is to see what it's like to let the use of the labels as a kind of refrain become more attenuated, more spare, so now and then just drop in new or gone. 

04:10 
seeing what it's like to rest simply, with no label, now and then dropping in a new aura gone. Thank you. Thank you. Any time you feel it would help, pick up a label a little more consistently and then perhaps let it go. 

05:35 
Thank you. Thank you. If things get very quiet, see what it's like to drop the labels altogether. If it seems like it might help, use the labels very quietly now and then. Thank you. Now and then trying new or gone. 

10:00 
riding the silent stream of awareness. bringing some movement into the body at your own pace, small movements, and larger movements, opening or raising the eyes, looking around you, and inhale, and exhale, and coming out of meditation while remaining aware. 

11:37 
Congratulations on finishing this retreat. In the next one, we're going to be exploring different flavors of flow. Have a lovely rest of your day. Thanks for watching! 
