
00:00 
Welcome to our first sit in this new retreat. So we've reached this phase where we're going to be recognizing that any part of the entire sense system, both outward and inward, is active or not active. 

00:19 
And the key thing here is that when it's active, that means we're aware of some sound or sight or sensation in the body or thought or feeling. And to any of those, we'll apply the label Yes. Yes, some sense experience is present. 

00:41 
There will start to be times when the pull, the draw of sense experience gets very attenuated and we find that even though we may notice various sense experiences, they don't interrupt the clear, peaceful awareness that we're resting in. 

01:04 
So in those times, we're going to use the label Rest. So it's either Yes or Rest. Okay, and I'm going to be leading us into this and we're going to get lots of runs at practicing this in the course of this retreat. 

01:23 
So let's come into our seated position for meditation. Get yourself sort of established in your posture. And then gently allow the whole body to become soft, letting the body loosen, coming into a state of ease, quiet. 

02:05 
Let's start by noticing whatever outward experience might be arising, sounds, sights, physical body sensations, scanning the outward system with the label OUT. Thank you. Thank you. And now let's pivot and start tracking the inward system for a little bit, thoughts and feelings, anything going on inwardly, in, in. 

04:40 
And now let's drop both those labels and sit in a state of rest for a moment and then we're going to start noticing whether our attention is drawn to any kind of sense experience outward or inward and when it is we label yes, yes, perhaps a car goes by out on the street, a bird sings or we feel a part of the body or a thought is present and when the attention is not going to any sense experience, 

05:20 
we label rest. So it's yes or rest. Thank you. Thank you. Once again, when we're drawn to any kind of sense experience, we label yes, and that may go on for a while, it's just fine, yes, and when we're not drawn to any kind of sense experience, we label rest, and that too may be brief or go on for a while. 

07:51 
Gently labelling any sense experience that arises, yes, and when the pool of sense experience is weak and we're resting in an open awareness, we label rest. Thank you. Thanks for watching! Again, label any sense experience that the attention is drawn to, yes, and when No sense experience is strongly, clearly arising. 

09:24 
Rest. Yes, for sense experiences, whether inward or outward, rest for when both outward and inward systems are quiet. Thank you. Thank you. Gently bringing movement back into the body. Let's open or raise the eyes, look around and come back into the space you're in and come out of the meditation. 

11:57 
So some of you may be kind of getting this right away and for some of you it may seem a little much and a little confusing, what am I supposed to be doing? But it will get clearer and it's really worth putting in the time with this practice, the rewards of it can be really very significant. 

12:17 
See you in the next sit. and have a great rest of your day. 
