
00:02 
Welcome. There's a revered Buddhist sutra called the Heart Sutra, which is beloved very much in Zen, and it has a line in it, gone, gone, thoroughly gone, beyond thoroughly gone. It's referring to an experience we can come to when somehow everything is completely gone. 

00:27 
I believe that many of us can get tastes and glimpses of that condition without having a full-blown awakening experience. Actually, the state of gone, when sense experience is not strongly present, is quite common, and we're learning to tease it out and recognize it more often through these practices. 

00:53 
And it can bring an enormous peace and a really refreshing, restorative, energized quiet that can come to infuse our day. So let's get set up for a new sit, letting yourself find balance, find restfulness, let your hands and fingers go limp, let your whole body soft. 

01:47 
And let's launch out onto the waters of meditation, out onto the Lake of Awareness, as it's sometimes called. using new to note sense experiences and gone for the absence or quietness of sense experience. 

02:15 
Thank you. Thank you. Let the label, whichever it is, be a gentle refrain. You might find you use it less frequently, either new or gone. It's a very simple practice. Let's see if we can meet it with a great simplicity. 

04:42 
New. Gone. Thank you. Can meditation be this simple, just new for sense experiences, or gone for their absence or quietness? Letting a kind of simple restfulness emerge, just new and gone. Thank you. 

08:13 
Perhaps, seeing what it's like to stay with the label, gone. Thank you. Gone. Gone. Can we stay with a kind of restful awareness as we bring movement back into the body, gently swaying or rocking, opening or raising the eyes and staying aware, coming out of meditation, coming back into the space that you're in and still staying aware? 

10:56 
Once again, the truth of our experience that that sutra, the heart sutra is pointing to when it says gone, gone, thoroughly gone, can be encountered in a big awakening experience, but it can actually be seen to punctuate our perfectly ordinary experience if we're on the lookout for it. 

11:19 
So I invite you to try taking a little pause now and then through your day and noting is sense experience present, in which case just say to yourself, new, or is that a deep quiet present also and labeling that gone? 

11:38 
Have a great rest of your day. 
