
00:00 
Welcome to our new retreat on using mindfulness of immediate sense experience to open up deep states of flow. I've mentioned that I use this protocol that we've been exploring in a in a slowed down step by step way in the first two retreats of this trail that I use this a lot myself it's often where I start I just you know sit down in the morning and get settled and I just start noticing outward experience yes here it is some sounds some physical sense of the body some seeing and sight and then is there any inward experience I check and it doesn't matter that much if there is any activation or not I'm still looking at the kind of circuitry or the space where inward experience would be arising if it is because there's always something even if all there is is a spacious rest and peace that's still inward experience so gradually I get clear and clearer outward experience occasionally some inward experience and then at a certain point I make the switch which is what we're about to go into together here on the way and the switch is to no longer be distinguishing between the outward sense system and the inward sense system and having it all categorized under one heading which is basically yes some form of sense experience is present or no no sense experiences are arising strongly and clearly so yes of course there may be subtle sense experience of hearing sensing the body perhaps of thoughts and feelings that's present but what can be absent is the strong pull toward sense experience. 

02:08 
Actually we're starting to get to where all the practice we've been doing in this trail so far has been leading and that is this beautiful possibility of being able to rest aware of sense experience has gone very quiet. 

02:33 
So that's where we're going now. I can remember memorable times when using this technique was just so profoundly helpful. Once for example I was doing a solo retreat for several days in a cave up in the mountains of northern New Mexico where I absolutely love to go when I can and it was a turbulent time in the nation. 

02:59 
someone very close to me was having a very hard time, and there was some turbulence in my work situation as well. And I, on my first morning up, up in this retreat space, I, I sat down and I raised, whoa, there's quite a bit of inner stuff going on. 

03:19 
And I just started labelling, you know, in, in recognizing inner sense experience going on, and then gradually started to notice the outward sense experience, and then shifted gear to noticing whether any kind of sense experience was arising, or whether there were in fact, there were in fact gaps or spaces when the pull of sense experience had dropped away, and rather quickly going into an incredible piece that would have seemed quite impossible half an hour earlier. 

03:56 
And that became the kind of baseline of the days up there, peace from which it was possible to view the challenges in life that were going on in a much more helpful, responsive, positive light. So I'm very much looking forward to sharing this next phase of the practice with you. 

04:21 
See you in our first sip. 
