
00:00 
Hi, welcome back. In this sit we're going to be picking up on what we're starting to explore in the last sit, which is the use of the labels new and gone. Just to reiterate, any time you're aware of sense experience, whether it's inward, thoughts and feelings, or outward, seeing, hearing, or feeling the body, we label new. 

00:27 
And we just keep doing that as long as that sense experience is present for us. When there are gaps and sense experience is not strong or clear, we label gone because the pull of sense experience has gone. 

00:45 
Okay, let's settle right in. So coming into a comfortable position for your meditation, sort of establish your posture, and then let everything go. Let the whole body become a limp rag doll, just resting. 

01:17 
A soft, maybe subtle, loose sense of release all through the body. And let's start noticing what kind of sense experience is present. And whatever we're finding, label it new. And if and when there are gaps, and there somehow isn't sense experience clearly presenting, label gone. 

02:05 
Thank you. For example, we might be aware of the sound scape for a little bit, just label new. Or we might sense a part of the body new. Or we might find we're resting in an awareness without much sense experience presenting. 

03:23 
Label gone. New, because there is some sense experience, gone, because there isn't strong, clear sense experience. Thank you. Sometimes all we're really aware of is being, just being aware, we'd label that gone. 

05:45 
Thank you. . At any point, if you're not sure which label is appropriate, just try Gone for a little while. Sometimes we may have been lost in thought for a little bit. It's perfectly fine and natural. 

08:00 
We label new then retroactively. Thank you. Sometimes things can get very quiet and we rest in and with gone. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, let's gently be coming out of the sit, bringing small movement back into the body, and then perhaps larger movement, let the arms open and have a stretch, and coming back. 

10:30 
I want to just say again that I use this kind of practice quite a bit, and I really love it. It can help me get grounded and clear very quickly, and then bring me into deeper states of peaceful samadhi or flow. 

10:47 
And I really hope that you'll come to love it too, if you don't already. Have a lovely rest of your day. 
