
00:00 
Thank you. Welcome back. So we're going to start right in with another meditation. And just a quick note, we're basically going to be doing again what we did in the previous sit and seeing if we can get the hang of it a little more clearly and really starting to notice the difference between the state of rest when both sense systems acquire and the yes when one of them is active. 

00:57 
Okay, precious time when it's really just about you and your experience, you and your very life, resting, powering down, just being, just tasting existence itself. Let's start now with the label, yes, and be noticing whatever kind of sense experience is present for you. 

01:47 
Sights, sounds, physical body sensations, thoughts and feelings. Yes, gently scanning, For what sense experience is present? Yes. Thank you. Now, we may notice at times that some sense experience may be subtly present, but we're really not drawn to it. 

03:17 
We're just kind of dimly aware of it, but our attention, our awareness, remains at rest. Those times we'll label rest, so it's either yes or rest. Sometimes, we may go back and forth between, yes, there's some sense experience and rest. 

04:39 
There isn't much. And then again, yes, because there is. That's just fine. We're tracking what's arising. Thank you. Use the labels gently with an easy cadence, yes, or rest. Once again, yes, when sense experience has arisen, or is arising, and rest, when sense experience has gone rather quiet. 

08:12 
Sometimes, there may be a stretch when sense experience seems to remain quiet. Just keep labelling rest when that happens. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, or rest. Wiggling the toes, wiggling the fingers, raising the eyes, having a little stretch. 

10:42 
Great. I encourage you to try this practice now and then through your day. You only need a very brief moment to just check in. Notice sense experience in the outward system. Notice sense experience in the inward system. 

11:02 
Say yes to both and continue with your day. Wishing you a great rest of your day. Thanks for watching! 
