
00:00 
Welcome back. There's a way in which every single moment of experience is new. We're so accustomed to sensing a continuity in life, and we really call it time, and imagine time as a kind of thread that keeps unspooling, as it were. 

00:23 
But really, there's only now. There's only this moment. And actually, it's always new. This is the heart of what's meant by beginner's mind in Zen, getting to recognize this. So in this meditation, we're going to switch out the labels a little bit, and we're going to use new instead of yes. 

00:47 
Every time there's sense experience that our attention has been drawn to, it's new, and when there's those pockets or gaps, when sense experience is not pulling us, it's gone. Okay, let's come into a comfortable seated position. 

01:10 
And just start to recognize what's present for you. There'll be some body sensation. There'll be some awareness of the soundscape all around you. There may be some awareness of the space around you, objects around you, some light color, whether your eyes are open or closed. 

01:53 
There may be some emotion, tone. could be some thoughts bubbling up. To any of those we would apply the label new because each time we notice them it's a new arising, a new noticing. So when we're not drawn strongly or clearly to any sense experience we label gone. 

02:39 
So let's start out with new, a gentle refrain with the word the label new, noticing what's present. New, We might already be noticing that there are times when we're not pulled or drawn to sense experience, and those we're going to label gone. 

04:08 
So there may be stretches in the sit where there's repeated use of gone or of new. All is just fine. New or gone. Thank you. Thank you. Once again, if there's ever a point where you're uncertain which label is appropriate, just go with one of them. 

05:31 
Try gently repeating it for a while, and then if that's somehow not feeling quite right, try the other one. Thank you. Thank you. Really, neither label is better than the other, there may be a whole sit where you keep exploring new sense experiences as they arise, and that's wonderful, or you may rest with little sense experience and the label gone for an entire sit, that's also just fine. 

08:00 
New, new, all gone, gone. Thank you. Sometimes we may keep going back and forth between the labels. That's also just fine. New or gone. Thank you. whatever's arising, new, whenever it's quiet, gone. Gently bringing movement back into the body. 

11:37 
Raising the eyes, coming back into the space you're in, and gently exiting meditation. I want to thank you for trying these practices, and please bear with them if you're finding them a little confusing. 

11:56 
The fruits will come. And meanwhile, a reminder that the main thing is simply the best we can being aware of our own experience as it is. Next up, we're going to be getting more proficient at this new way into the Zen experience of a deep beginner's mind. 

12:18 
Have a great rest of your day. Thanks for watching! 
