
00:00 
Welcome back. In this sit, we're going to continue exploring these labels, yes and gone, but we're going to have a little more emphasis on the gone. That's to say, exploring, tracking, and noticing those phases in a sit when sense experience has gone quiet and we're not strongly pulled to it. 

00:26 
They may happen more frequently than we ordinarily notice, so we'll be looking for that in this sit. So let's come into a comfortable position for meditation. If you're upright and your back is unsupported, then really looking for the balance, letting the skull, the whole head, sort of roost as it were like a bird between the shoulders. 

00:56 
Let the spinal column be well stacked so it's got its own structural integrity and no effort is needed to keep it upright. And let everything relax around it, shoulders and arms, back, front, flanks, legs, all sort of draped like curtains hanging at rest. 

01:30 
Thank you. Starting to taste stillness, starting to receive quiet, calm. Noticing. What's present for us right now? Thank you. Let's start out with the label gone, gone, meaning that we're not strongly drawn to any sense experience. 

02:26 
Gone. The pull, the draw of sense experience is relatively quiet. Gone. And see what it's like to use the label as a gentle refrain every so often. Gone. Let's be open to using yes when sense experience has drawn our attention, and meanwhile foregrounding the use of gone as a kind of baseline refrain. 

04:06 
Gone. Thank you. Thank you. So gone is our refrain and we pick up yes when appropriate. Thank you. Seeing what it's like to rest with the label gone, gently repeated every so often, meaning the pull of sense experience is gone, but using yes as much as is appropriate. 

07:34 
What's it like when the pool of sense experience has gone? What is gone really like? Thank you. We're giving ourselves a chance to notice when the pull of sense experience has gone, and to feel and taste what that's like. 

08:57 
Gone. Thank you. Gone as our baseline, and yes when appropriate. Coming out of the meditation, bringing some movement back into the body, opening or raising the eyes, having a stretch and becoming aware of the space that you're in. 

11:21 
Okay, great. Next up, we'll be introducing another little tweak to the way we're doing this practice, wishing you a fine rest of your day. 
