
00:04 
Good morning everyone, welcome to our first 2024 Original Love Sunday session. My name is Luke, I'm a long time student of Henry's, I'm an Original Love mentor and facilitator, I'm really honored and happy to be hosting today. 

00:26 
If you all have the ability to drop a comment into the chat area and just let us know how you're feeling today and where you're tuning in from, we'll read a couple of these out so we can get a scope of the morning afternoon or evening collection of almost 100 human beings, more than 100 human beings that are gathered here together this Sunday. 

00:56 
Gainesville, Florida, we have chilly and stormy in the UK, cold grey in San Antonio, LA with grey skies, rainy and ready in Victoria, British Columbia, windy and cold in Houston, warm and dark and still 1 a.m. 

01:20 
in Bali, alright, love Bali, cloudy and cool in Oklahoma City, crisp and clear in Berlin, Calgary, morning from Calgary, I wonder how cold it is there, the snow is melting in Bellingham, Washington, one of my favorite cities in the entire U.S., morning from San Jose, Oceanside, alright, Portland, Oregon, sense of anticipation in England and read a couple more, Hello Hector in Mexico City, morning from Wisconsin from Bennett, 

01:56 
Suffolk, France, Arlington, Massachusetts, snowy Stockholm, Tucson, Arizona, Puerto Rico, Warsaw, UK. Wonderful. So wonderful to be here with you all. I'm going to turn over the microphone to Henry Shookman. 

02:21 
Hey, Luke, thank you so much. And hey, I want to say thank you very much everybody for putting these great greetings into the chat. I'm a little bit glued to them still because they're so fascinating all around the world. 

02:34 
And weather is so lovely to think of the weather in all these different places, Brussels and Poland and Bali. And hey, thanks for being with us, Victoria, 1am. And thank you everybody for being here, gathering like this to come home, which is the theme of today's session. 

02:59 
And it's always actually, in a sense, the theme of practice is always about coming home and we'll be exploring the different dimensions of that, the different ways of coming home and the different things that home can mean from a practice perspective above all, you know, from the point of view of studying our very human nature, our very human experience, what our human experience is, body, mind, heart, 

03:33 
being, here, now. It's always our lodestone in practice. But I just want to give a little bit of kind of context right now. I'm just, I've had a rather sort of stormy few days. I had an amazing week until Sunday, until Friday night. 

03:57 
I was in Costa Rica leading a retreat with my dear old friend, David White. So a very powerful, beautiful retreat in an amazing place. It was a sort of threading together of poetry and dharma with just over 100 people in a most incredibly beautiful place and very sort of powerful, fantastic event, I think. 

04:20 
But certainly for us too, and seem to be like for everybody. Then Friday, all day traveling home till late. And then yesterday, Saturday, I actually woke up feeling kind of a little off and turned out I had a temperature, a fever, spent most of the day in bed, most of the day sleeping. 

04:41 
And I really didn't want to, you know, well, have to pull out of this event today. I'm so excited about it. And actually, I just had this hunch that whatever this thing was might just be a brief thing. 

04:56 
And sure enough, I woke up back. to normal, you know, normal temperature, feeling pretty good, but also just a little bit sort of frail. So I'm just conscious of needing to kind of husband my resources and try to just be really in a sort of a steady place. 

05:20 
So I just wanted to share that with you so you know, a little bit of where I'm coming from. But above all, actually, most of all, I'm feeling this kind of rather full of this sense of a sort of tender, grateful excitement at the prospect of starting the whole new year of original love gatherings. 

05:48 
And this, I feel very, very lucky to be able to be part of this, this kind of gathering. you know, to be along with a great team. We got Jeremy and Luke and Shanna and Sarah all helping to make this happen on, you know, something like a biweekly basis right through the year. 

06:14 
So thanks to all of you for coming on. Of course, you are, in the end, what makes it happen with, you know, a little bit of help from us, but basically you guys make it happen. So thank you very, very much. 

06:30 
Well, we're going to begin with a sit. We're going to begin by the most basic kind of coming home, which is just coming home to this moment, which means that wherever our attention has been, we just do this little gentle thing of tethering. 

06:58 
Tethering it and just pulling it back, gently pulling it back again and again, you know, so that we start to deepen our habitation of here and now. Because on one level, we're pulling back our mind repeatedly when it's wondered, which it naturally does. 

07:26 
But on another level, also, we're actually expanding our awareness here and now. And when we're doing that, as our awareness of here and now and in the here and now is expanding, actually our mind can wonder more and we remain aware. 

07:49 
It's like that image that Shumu Suzuki Roshi had that many of you would have heard me share before of being like the man with hope. her foal. We want to give the foal a wide meadow, the frolic and gamble in. 

08:07 
But we, the mare, the mum, stay aware of the whole meadow, even while the little foal is skipping around in it. Okay, so let's come into whatever suits you. Right now, there's a meditation posture. Thank you. 

08:42 
Okay, so coming into your comfortable seated position, that's great. Letting, letting yourself feel your seat. Thank you. So feel your anchoring to the Earth through your seat and through your feet. Thank you. 

09:42 
I rather like to have a very soft entry into meditation these days, not like a hard and fast before and after, so I'm just going to share a bit of how I do, just being where I'm at, and I'm just starting to be still, so there's no hard line I'm crossing. 

10:08 
From non-meditating to meditating. I'm just gradually inviting a little bit of an expansion of the awareness, of the kind of baseline experience of being here right where I am. So there's the connection to the earth, and in feeling that, let your body relax as we're more conscious of our connectedness to the earth. 

10:59 
We align with gravity, so make little adjustments. You can sway and rock very gently, finding the vertical. That's assuming you're sitting with the back free. And if you're not, that's just great. Just recline and give yourself to the support behind it. 

11:27 
But either way, we're entrusting ourselves to the support of the Earth. Don't let your jaw go, let your throat and tongue go, let them be soft. Thank you. You can lower the gaze or close the eyes. Thank you. 

12:10 
Be aware of shoulders, arms and hands. Let them be warm and clear and entirely at rest. Be aware of hips and seat and legs and feet. Let them also be warm and clear and resting. Thank you. And let the inner volume of the trunk of the torso be warm and clear and resting. 

12:55 
And let it include the neck and throat and head. And let the entire body be a warm, clear space. Thank you. See if you can remain aware of this warm clear space of the whole body and then open up to the space around us as well. 

13:44 
Thank you. . The space around us also has sounds arising within it, kind of overlays or overlaps with the soundscape, the space in which sounds out in the world, including in our inner ears, by the way, how sounds, the space in which sounds, arrives. 

15:04 
So being warm and comfortable in your body, at ease, and also letting your awareness somehow occupy the soundscape and the space around. Thank you. Resting the face, resting the jaw, again resting shoulders and arms, warm rest in chest and belly, and hips, legs and feet. 

16:19 
Thank you. Thank you. . notice that sometimes thoughts will bubble up. They may kind of pick us up and carry us a little bit, then we're aware. Again, when that's been happening, just use a little label, thinking, so you can say that word thinking in your mind, just as an acknowledgement that you know it's it was happening. 

17:05 
And it's just great because it's perfectly natural and because now you're back. The retroactive Mabel is very useful. And then we're back here. Thank you. Thinking really needn't disturb our meditation. 

17:33 
It just happens now and then. Here we are again. Let's start to tune into the quiet. There is a kind of quiet here. Thank you. let the quiet come. Let it come by itself. As we go quiet, we invite something like a larger quiet to show itself. 

19:16 
Thank you. Sometimes it feels like this larger quiet kind of flows in like a tide. Thank you. It's almost like it does our meditation for us. Thank you. So, no worries, it's not like this has to happen, but it's just an invitation to be aware or to be open. 

20:16 
to our own quiet, inviting in a deeper quiet, a larger quiet. Thank you. The sense is really that we do less, and in the first part of meditation we're kind of somewhat doing stuff to become more balanced and at ease and aware. 

21:08 
And our own quiet can invite a deeper quiet that flows in, that's not of our doing. Thank you. But again, we don't want to feel this must happen or something, not at all, it's just being open to the possibility. 

21:50 
Thank you. Resting. Thank you. Resting. Thank you. and perhaps starting to notice a certain kind of a subtle flow in the rest, a subtle move in the rest of your life. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 

23:20 
Thank you. Now an invitation now, if we look at our experience right now, just as it is, is there really any trace of time in it? Thank you. In our actual experience, our awareness, resting awareness, awareness receiving, is time actually a part of it, or is it time trade? 

26:03 
Thank you. And you see what it's like to let any sense of time drop away, as if there were a little digital clock in the corner of our awareness. that is just evaporating. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 

28:53 
Thank you. Thank you. Never we need to, coming back to our restfulness, rest in the body, in the mind, in the heart, and letting awareness emerge from restfulness. The rest itself is aware. And this sweet kind of awareness comes from resting. 

30:32 
Thank you. that's really at home, here and now. And it has this capacity to welcome, warmly, anything in our inner experience that may not feel at home. But any part of us that's not quite in a state of comfort and rest and ease. 

31:19 
Allowing this restful awareness to welcome it, to make this larger than any particular part of our experience. It welcomes and holds and allows all our experience. The great guest house that welcomes all. 

33:46 
Rest means no effort, actually no time. Thank you. The quiet that isn't where. Thank you. and all-welcoming nature, all-allowing. Thank you. Nothing is held on to and nothing is pushed away. Thank you. 

35:00 
We actually don't even have to know who we are, just for now. We can let that go too. Thank you. Releasing into the depths of loving awareness. Thank you. In these last few moments just enjoy late rest, not trying to do anything. 

37:28 
Thank you. Actually, the same way that we went into the meditation, rather sort of gently, without a hard line, let's do the same emerging from it. We're going to sort of go from, it is really a blending, a blended thing, because we're going from the sit into a little five-minute break, and we'll reconvene at 45 minutes past the hour. 

38:59 
So you can, that's six minutes away. So you just sort of do what you need to do. Do you? Am I keep sitting? Am I going to get a cup of tea? Whatever. But do it, do it so that whatever kind of awareness, you know, whatever, yeah, whatever awareness you've been tasting while sitting, I mean, there's absolutely no reason not to just carry it, carry on with it as you go and put the kettle on, for example, 

39:32 
or as you just stretch and sit here for a while and then whatever you need to do, just let the meditative awareness, I don't just stay in it, you know. Okay, so we'll see, we'll reconvene in five minutes. 

39:52 
Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. I don't want to be alone, I don't want to be alone, I don't want to be alone, I don't want to be alone, I don't want to be alone, I don't want to be alone, I don't want to be alone, I don't want to be alone, I don't want to be alone, I don't want to be alone, I don't want to be alone, I don't want to be alone, I don't want to be alone, I don't want to be alone, 

41:45 
I don't want to be alone, I don't want to be alone, I don't want to Thanks for watching! Thank you. Thanks for watching! That's some good tunga. Thanks for watching! Thanks for watching! Thanks for watching! 

43:24 
I'm not going to do this anymore, I'm not going to do this anymore, I'm not going to do this anymore. Everybody's coming back, actually not everybody quite is back, but we'll just get gently into the flow, I'm just looking again at the lovely grid, the gallery, it's so great to see everybody, God thank you all for being here. 

44:15 
I think of course I can see a lot of old hands of the original Love Program and maybe some new people as well, so I think actually either way it's good to spend a moment sort of revisiting or visiting for the first time for some of you, the whole point of this approach which is kind of a little bit of a re-jigging of the trainings that I've been through, of course the main one of those being Zen, 

44:57 
I've also trained in Jana practice, which is a deep Theravada methodology, and in various kinds of mindfulness. Of course, that's, you know, that's, that's the main thing these days, but this original love program is an attempt to have a slightly different approach really to the whole project of meditation and its place in the heart of human spiritual life. 

45:36 
And by spiritual life, meaning sort of not excluding psychology and therapy and work on that level, but also including these sort of these dimensions of our experience that are very hard to find the right name for, that I sometimes think of them as existential in the sense that their insights and even, you might say, kind of revelations on the level of what our actual experience, what our actual existence is. 

46:13 
And they tend to be called spiritual, but that doesn't mean they're to do with disembodied spirits that are some kind of being that's not a material being. So there's nothing like that. We use the word spiritual because we don't have a clearer one. 

46:31 
I suppose you might say that Buddhism, which by the way is a Western word, there was no such thing as Buddhism until about 1840, when some Western ethnographers, you could call them, or explorers and students of Eastern practices, realized that there was a body of, there was a kind of network and body of certain kinds of practice that were all related to this, this guy called Sakyamuni or Saka or Sakya, 

47:04 
Sakya, meaning Sakyamuni Buddha. And gradually it sort of, they realized, oh yeah, there's this whole set of practices and that fall under Buddhism. We can say that word was coined. I think it was basically by, I don't want to get the same thing too definitive. 

47:28 
It's not my field, really the history of Buddhism, but there was a French scholar who published a great book called something like the History and Practices of Buddhism in the 1840s. But the word Buddhism of course comes from the word Buddha, which comes from the root bud or bod, B-O-D-H, which means to do things to do with waking up, basically awakening, waking up, can be in the perfectly ordinary sense of waking up. 

48:03 
In the case of this kind of practice, it's to do with breaking open into a different dimension of perspective on our ordinary experience. One key part of that is different perspective on what our sense of self has been. 

48:29 
Normally, we're so kind of wrapped up in our sense of self, so identified with the cognitive pieces that we consider to be proof of our self as an existing entity, that we can't get any perspective on it. 

48:52 
We're just caught up in it, and one of the key senses of this kind of or waking up, is to have some perspective on that sense of self, meaning that a perspective in which we're not already wrapped up in it, so we can sort of see it as a phenomenon from a perspective that is free of that phenomenon, if you see what I mean. 

49:20 
So we can find that our being kind of buried in this little nugget called me, suddenly we're free to that, and we then are dropped back into a much wider picture, and that wider picture can have different flavors, different dimensions, different aspects to it, but in all of them we just know that we're getting a larger and actually more real view than the view we had when we were kind of tangled up in this little nugget called me. 

50:05 
So that's the kind of waking up, and it's a beautiful thing, and it is well attested, humans can go through it, and in Zen it's often called seeing original nature, or sometimes original face, and I'm still, by the way, just in a roundabout way talking about the origin of this particular program called original love, and I want to tell you a little story from the Zen annals that help make, I think will help make clear what we're talking about in this program, 

50:37 
and what this program is seeking to offer and help all of us with, which I'll just tell you now is a kind, welcoming, gentle, generous, heartfelt, non-excluding approach to meditation, whereby there are not obstacles you've got to get over, hurdles you've got to get over. 

50:59 
have to leak, breakthroughs you have to have, which then sort of basically approach meditation with none of the above. So here's the little story. Yul again was a ninth century young Buddhist in China, who was a very bright, apparently young man, and he was a eager scholar. 

51:21 
And he, he had mastered, you know, the scholarship on various topics and scriptures and things and decided to go and visit a great master and sort of pitch himself against this master. The master was a guy called Guishan or Isan in the Chinese, in the Japanese pronunciation. 

51:43 
So Yul again goes to Guishan and, and starts to kind of present his understanding and, and Guishan listens and then when Yul again sort of winds down. Brisha and Sydney says, it's very simple. You just have to find your original face that you've had since before even your parents were born. 

52:14 
You just have to find or see your original face, which you've had since before even your parents were born. The original face you've had since certainly before you were born, your own original face from before you were born. 

52:35 
In fact, before even your parents were born. Okay, so that's what Brisha said to Kilgan. Kilgan, having traveled far with all his little sort of a, they had this little wooden, sort of like a wooden backpack, basically, sort of wooden crate that they'd wear on their back. 

52:56 
It brought that with all these scrolls in it. And the story is that he sort of, he said, he sort of thought no problem and went to his wherever he was, you know, whether he had a little cell or a bunk or something in the monastery, he got out all these scripts and starts looking through them all for original face, finding something on the original face that he can bring to the great master say, I got it. 

53:21 
This is, this is what the original face is. And he says he's up gradually realizing he's not, he can't find anything. And apparently he's up all night getting more and more desperate, trying to find something and nothing. 

53:34 
And then in the morning, he goes back to Guishan having been up all night. Master, I don't know, I can't find anything on the original face. What does it mean? And Guishan says to him, I could tell you, but you wouldn't thank me for it later. 

53:58 
So this is an important moment in Piulgo's life and suddenly he's actually, he realizes that all his scholarship and his apparent sort of brilliance just is not going to help him. He's reached an impasse, as the French say, a place you cannot go beyond with your current understanding. 

54:24 
I love this actually, it's like Piaget, you know the child development, great Swiss child development psychologist from the mid, early mid, what was it, mid 20th century? Piaget, he said, I'm sure there's some deep psychologists here, so forgive me if I don't get this, it's exactly right, but I believe Piaget said something like there's two kinds of learning that a child goes through, I suppose all of us go through. 

54:55 
One is assimilation and the other is accommodation, and assimilation means that we have a certain frame of understanding and we can assimilate new material into it. Find something new, ah, it fits there. 

55:12 
Something new, it fits there. Then there's something else called accommodation, which is when new information comes in that the existing frame simply can't hold. And then the frame, I suppose we either just decide we're going to close down and not know about that thing, which probably happens quite a lot actually for us, or it's going to have to break to allow to accommodate the new information. 

55:45 
And somehow Kyogen recognizes that he's just reached one of those accommodation points, but he does not know how to accommodate the new whatever it is that's being pressed upon him. So he loses confidence in his existing way of understanding, but doesn't yet have the new way of understanding. 

56:15 
So what does he do? He sort of renounces or scholarship. It's a bit of a dramatic story. It's more dramatic than I realized. He renounces all that and goes and becomes an itinerant laborer. He just drifts from place to place, having little, you know, odd job, odd jobs. 

56:35 
He, you know, after a while, I mean, years, some years, he winds up as a kind of janitor or groundsman for a little shrine with a little temple. It actually happens to be a shrine to the kind of a sixth and ancestor of Buddhism in China, called Wainung. 

57:01 
And Wainung, it just so happens, was the first person, at least in Zen records, to ask this question, what is your original face from before your parents were born? So it's just an odd little, nice little coincidence that some, you know, in the development of the narrative was woven into the story. 

57:22 
Anyway, he's now working as a janitor, or groundskeeper, you know, this little, little shrine, sweeping every morning, polishing things, dusting, you know, whatever his chores were, day by day. Presumably, maybe he's still doing his sitting, but he's no longer meeting with teachers, he's no longer studying text in the way he used to. 

57:53 
One morning, he's sweeping out the yard and his broom catches a little piece of a little pebble or some say it was a little piece of a broken tile and and it flicks you know this this broom is sweeping sweeping and then this little flick a pebble flies up and hits one of those giant stalks of bamboo you know that could be sort of 60 70 feet tall and it hits with a knock a hollow tock this little pebble or piece of tile flick tock hits the bamboo tock and it's a it's sort of somehow you know presumably he's engrossed in his task of sweeping maybe he's in quite a settled sort of meditative kind of state and then there's suddenly there's this tock in a way he's never heard any sound before suddenly there is only that sound there's there's no engineering this there's no manufacturing it there's no making it happen is some preparatory sort of work or whatever we can do which is our practice and if we're doing practice sometimes out of the blue somehow we're in some kind of open state or who knows what where suddenly something like this can happen there's just a a little experience but in that instant of experience we discover something about the very nature of experience itself that applies to all experience, 

59:58 
and our whole frame of how we've been understanding experience up until then, shatters and falls. And that's what happened to Kyogen at that moment. He said afterwards, you know, he was kind of, the story is that he was sort of, there's something just happened, and this knock just sort of, you know, he was completely blown away. 

01:00:22 
What he knew of himself and of his understanding in life was blown away, that little knock, and it all just disappeared. There was nothing but that knock anywhere. And he said afterwards, you know, he was trembling and sweating and weeping, and he changed his clothes, he took off his clothes and washed and put on new clothes and lit incense, and then bowed in the direction of old Wishan's temple. 

01:00:55 
and said, thank you so much for not answering my question. You were kinder than my own parents in not telling me the answer back then. Because now he's actually discovered for himself his own original face. 

01:01:14 
And he writes a verse, the first line of which is, So this is a real possibility for us humans to have our existing frame of experiencing, which by and large is based on the sense that I am somewhere inside the skin bag and the whole world is outside the skin bag. 

01:01:52 
Actually, that's not quite enough. I am some little nugget within this body. And whatever kind of nugget I am, all of my experience is just outside it. So that includes body experience. So if I feel my foot, I am the subject that is experiencing an object called, that happens to be my foot. 

01:02:17 
Or if I have a stomach ache, I am the subject experiencing the difficult feeling in the belly. So just as much as I might be hearing the sound of a car, I am this recipient of all experience. So that's one set up. 

01:02:36 
That's one arrangement of understanding of experience. In the experience of seeing the original face, quote unquote, that Kyogen just had, that collapsed. There was no separation between the sound and the person experiencing it. 

01:02:58 
That was just the sound. Okay. So Zen values that kind of awakening, sudden awakening. On the whole, it's probably very much in line with the kind of awakening described in early Buddhist texts, Theravada texts, the Pali Canon. 

01:03:28 
But in the early stuff, it tends to usually be a bit more gradual. There's a sort of gradual progression of insight, of loosening of attachments. And you may get to somewhere pretty much the same, but by a more kind of step-by-step approach. 

01:03:54 
And let me just let me just just let's just take a moment actually just absorb or be with just check where we are with a story of Kyougan's sudden awakening and the story of seeing the original face. 

01:04:16 
And you know it may be a little shocking even this sort of possibility of like man there's a that's just um I don't want to rush ahead too fast that's just ah just see how we're doing. Thank you. Yeah, okay, so kind of, all of that's one kind of approach to practice, whether it's actually in this Zen way or whether it's in the more, the earlier Buddhist Theravada kind of way, that there's a, there's a acknowledged sort of goal or possibility, 

01:05:15 
and approaches might differ about how you get there, but there's a, there's kind of, you know, there's a, there's a path, there's a known path that has either certain known landmarks along the way, plus a destination, or it may be a little vaguer about the landmarks, but still fairly clear about the destination. 

01:05:42 
Okay. Well, that's beautiful. It's lovely that such a thing, such things exist that know about and care about, and value and want to share these human possibilities that we have actually not had such easy access to we, I mean, in the West over the millennia. 

01:06:08 
There really hasn't been such clear understanding passed down by the last two and a half millennia the way there has in Asia. Largely, but by no means exclusively through Buddhism, other Asian practices are right on it as well. 

01:06:26 
But maybe there's a little bit of a different thing with Buddhism that it had absolutely no preconceptions about a worldview. They didn't really, I mean, Buddha didn't set out to say, there's a God, there's a soul, and we're going to discover them. 

01:06:42 
He didn't do that. He said, I just want to understand human experience. And I also want to understand why they're suffering, why suffering is so endemic to human experience. that's all I want to understand and manage to come up with a system that doesn't need to have any kind of super nature in it at all. 

01:07:02 
Some might want that in it as well and definitely there are fours of Buddhism that are very like other religions but at its core I think it's fair to say that the contemplative path of Buddhism, the study of the human experience doesn't need to have those things in it. 

01:07:20 
It's really just studying, finding out what it is to be experiencing seeing at all. Okay so all that lovely great but it's not the only way. What I found, and forgive me those of you who have heard me tell this little story before, what I've done, having done a fair bit of training in Buddhism and in more Hindu-based meditation, I found one time when I was staying for six weeks in a little seaside village in Venezuela at the end of a writing assignment, 

01:08:16 
I was a lucky young man. I started my writing life really early and I had this sort of privilege really of being sent, I mean having done two or three books, that's being sent around by magazines on writing assignments, often in Latin America and in the Caribbean. 

01:08:40 
I think I also had a little bit of a life as a musician in the Caribbean as well but I now do. I had done the research and I had written it actually. And I had six weeks when I just wanted to sit and write a book I was working on. 

01:09:00 
And I was staying in this little village and it was a beautiful little place, seaside, you know, tropical beach, palm trees, very simple little place, cup, I think only one hotel actually. And then another house that you could rent room with him. 

01:09:19 
And I was probably two or 300 people or something. And fishermen, you know, boats pulled up and tied to palm trees. You had to be careful actually walking around at night. You didn't trip over the ropes that were holding the boats up. 

01:09:36 
But I started sitting out on the beach every evening because it's such beautiful quiet spot. Just make myself a little mound of sand and sit. And maybe on the third night I was sitting like that. And then I heard a little voice, Señor, Señor. 

01:09:53 
And I looked up, and two boys were there. They asked me what I was doing. And I said, I'm meditating. And they said, well, what's that? And I sort of tried to explain a bit. And they said, well, can we do it, too? 

01:10:06 
So I said, well, OK. So I sort of got them set up with little mounds of sand and to sit on. And I explained about counting the breath, and sitting upright, and we did five minutes. And at the end of five minutes, I said, OK, that's great. 

01:10:23 
You've done great. That's five minutes. Let's do more. So we did another five minutes. And then basically, they came. They just kept showing up to join men, started bringing friends, and occasionally a parent or two. 

01:10:36 
And it just became a regular little thing, sitting out there in the evening, little group of us. And I mean, there was one evening I didn't show up. And the next morning, the two boys were at my door in a hotel saying, where were you last night? 

01:10:52 
So I realized, OK, I've got to keep doing this. But the point was, when we were just sitting there like that, there was something that I kind of hadn't tasted before in the various contexts in which I'd previously meditated. 

01:11:14 
And at that point, I'd been meditating about 10 years. I've been to a couple of monasteries several times. And I'd, you know, whatever. I'd been a pretty diligent practitioner student. But when we were just sitting like that, in the warm air, with sometimes the little sifting of the wind in the palm fronds, and the gentle lapping through the sea nearby, the warm air, and the air doing that thing of becoming kind of powdery at dusk, 

01:11:49 
crepuscular. you know, particulate, if you know what I mean. Yeah, getting, getting, yeah, that sort of particulate quality in dusk. We're just sitting there. It was really, it was so much sweeter to not think that we were trying, and this is my experience, that we were, I was trying to do anything. 

01:12:13 
It was much more like trying to do nothing, or not even trying to do anything at all. But simply being, and simply letting, letting my sense of being do whatever it needed to do, which generally seemed to be not necessarily that it needed to but kind of wanted to, are sort of coming apart like a dissolving. 

01:13:00 
Like all we're really doing when meditating is really, as some actually have always said, all we're really doing is letting go. So yes, there are very beautiful, valid, important meditative parts that are sort of engineering. 

01:13:30 
They're kind of developing, generating new ways of sort of analyzing experience, new ways of experiencing actually, discovering things about our experience in strategically sort of developed ways. But there's another way where you don't try, you don't do any of that. 

01:13:52 
You just let go. You just let go. And what I find, and I still to this find, is that then something very sweet just comes forth. Thank you. It seems very natural, I'm not going to make any attempt to justify this claim, but it seems very natural to me that the process of really letting go, of releasing, of letting go, takes us to some kind of sweetness, and that can be even when our hearts are broken, 

01:14:43 
even when we're having a really hard time, and we've been through that, or are in the midst of a difficult scenarios in life, or even our loved ones, mainly, and very, very difficult, seemingly unresolvable difficulties, that there's a way of just being still and quiet and trying to do nothing, of being undone rather than doing, a way of letting life and experience undo us. 

01:15:22 
It seems very natural somehow to me these days that it can bring us to a great sweetness, almost a kind of intrinsic benevolence. You know, some researchers talk about finding a fundamental well-being, and I think that's probably another way of expressing it. 

01:15:43 
What does it have to do with your original face? Maybe quite a lot, actually. It could be that... it is to do with, doesn't have to be so dramatic by any means. Maybe, maybe, maybe it could be sort of something like the original face, but it can be less cataclysmic, less catastrophic, less vast, less universal, less cosmic. 

01:16:06 
It can just be on a much smaller, closer to home kind of level. I just, I'm somehow more at peace with myself. Somehow, there's a benevolence about just being me. I don't have to pierce the veil. I don't have to see through my sense of me. 

01:16:27 
I can just have a kindness around my sense of being me. And that's sweet. It doesn't have to be this kind of, gotta get rid of yourself or something. No, you know, that's unfortunately, that's, I think it's true that our sense of self isn't exactly what we think it is. 

01:16:50 
But that, and then it's also true that, you know, all the practices that are broadly speaking non-dual, meaning they seek to reveal to us that our sense of being a subject with all experience being its object, in other words, dual, the duality of subject, me, an object, everything else. 

01:17:18 
The non-dual is to have that duality drop away. Great. But it's not the only benevolence. There's a sweet benevolence that practice can reveal that is not so exhorted or dramatic, but every bit as sweet. 

01:17:40 
So actually, I'm going to just, where are we? Okay, I'm just going to, I want to read you a poem. Okay. So, this little poem is called, Sweeping the Yard, and it's kind of like, okay, well, and maybe I don't need to say anything about it, let me just have a quick chat, yeah, okay, okay, well, we'll get to the chat later, actually, okay, so let me just see, I think I can probably do it without looking, 

01:18:16 
but I'm not sure. Sweeping the Yard. No, I can't do it without looking, I've got it here, let's see how far I can get. When I sweep the yard in the morning, I don't do it for myself, because I like it tight. 

01:18:36 
I don't even do it for the yard's sake, because it enjoys being clean. I do it for the shy one. I do it for the shy one who lives inside me, who loves the world better than I ever will, whose innocence is beyond understanding, and whose sweetness shines on the earth, so the earth loves itself again, who I only ever know in glimpses that leave me breathless with longing. 

01:19:18 
I do it when I'm sweet in the art, I'm doing it for the shy one who lives inside me, who loves the world better than I ever will, whose innocence is beyond understanding, and whose sweetness shines on the earth, so the earth loves itself again, and who I only never, who I only ever know in glimpses that leave me breathless with longing, with hope that goodness is still possible, is still somehow present in the world, 

01:19:56 
glimpses that knock away all my ideas of who or what I should be. So we pick up the broom again, he and I, and send the old leaves skittering across the patio, and the dust smoking over the tiles like ink from a brush, as we make the little piles we'll gather in later. 

01:20:29 
This is how he wakes up, this is how his wakefulness turns our little yard into the bright place I call home. So we pick up the broom together, again, he and I. We send the leaves skittering across the patio and the dust smoking over the tiles, like ink from a brush. 

01:21:00 
As we make the little piles, we'll gather in later. This is how he wakes up. This is how his wakefulness turns our little yard into the bright place I call home. Sweeping the yard. Okay, so you see, not as, I'm afraid, nowhere near as dramatic as Kilgan. 

01:21:43 
No great revelations there, you know, but a sweetness. sweetness, contacting, just contacting something, something I'm happy to contact. Thank you. Now, let me just see what I've got left to share before we open up for questions and discussion. 

01:22:18 
Oh, I think we've got it really. I think this probably doesn't need to be said, but here it is anyway. What if home is not actually a place? Perhaps home is really a function of the heart. We may be lucky enough to have known places where the heart was able to function in whatever way that is. 

01:22:48 
But if home has certain properties of feeling, if it's marked by certain kinds of feelings, then where the heart is allowed and able to feel those things, to function in those ways, then that's home. 

01:23:09 
Thank you. What if the purpose of practice is simply to come home? Thank you. See what I mean. I mean, maybe that's not obvious. We may not have framed it that way. But what happens if we do? What if the purpose of this practice, or these practices, is simply made to come home? 

01:23:48 
Rather than the adventure to conquer new territories of experience, which maybe, I don't know, I mean, it could be foolhardy young men who get into practice, like myself, might have tended to think of it that way. 

01:24:10 
I want to sort of, I want to conquer this thing called enlightenment. You know, I want to sort of, I want to, you know, expand the horizons of experiences and adventure. I mean, it's okay, it's all fine, you know, that whatever motivates us to do it is actually good. 

01:24:25 
But what if really what it is, is in fact, coming home. Thank you. And what if, coming home, means, really, a certain kind of functioning of this strange organ. But we're not really meaning an organ when we talk about the heart. 

01:25:05 
We're meaning this energy center, this place, this heart. What if it's actually, you know, I mean, some of you, you know, have been in this program for a while now, you know that, I mean, it's really important to include the troubles of the heart in our practice. 

01:25:33 
And in a way, this is another dimension of coming home. And it's worth stating because it's an easy thing to get into. It's like, I've got all this heartache, and I've got all these, you know, hassles, damn, I need a break. 

01:25:49 
I'm going to go into my practice to find some peace away from that. I mean, it's actually fair enough. We do need a break sometime, and it's good to be finding that. But isn't the, I mean, the deeper invitation, the deeper possibility, the greater possibility, the more valuable possibility really, is what would it take to have a relationship with my heart where I sort of let it come first? 

01:26:27 
That the real homecoming is not to some place of peace that I can sort of manage to get to that gives me some relief from what's going on here. Not that, but instead offering a place of peace within my heart to my heart's troubles. 

01:26:48 
Do you see what I mean? in, like letting this heart be a place of peace that does not banish heartache. I think it's important to talk about this because if we can accommodate heartache and even heartbreak, then we're not sort of evicted from our home, from our natural home. 

01:27:20 
We don't have to go on a lonely wondering because it's not comfortable back here. Do you see what I mean? Is this clear? Like the real home has got to be here and that means being able to accommodate what's going on here. 

01:27:41 
It doesn't mean I'm going to vanquish new territories. I'm going to go in the mountains, slay a dragon or two, and then be able to sit in blessed peace on the mountain top in a hermitage, but nobody can reach me. 

01:27:59 
None of that mess down there can reach me because I'm up there. I don't think that's, I mean, maybe that can be for a while if we're called like that, I don't know, but I don't think that's the real homecoming. 

01:28:17 
I'm pretty sure that the real homecoming, it could be that that is part of the path for some of us, but I think the real homecoming that I'm talking about is the one that is okay with heartbreak. That in a sense, perhaps can't really happen without heartbreak, which may sound a bit weird, but there's something about the wisdom of our hearts, really. 

01:28:50 
If they break, if they're going through a phase of heartbreak, that is a great learning opportunity. It's a great growth opportunity. It's the chance to shatter our restrictive intentions about ourselves and about our approach to the world and our understanding, to let go of understanding, to assume that we might not know best, to let go of understanding, to release our knowing, to go into the actually beautiful dark of not knowing the, 

01:29:46 
the kind, sweet darkness of not knowing, that brings us actually face-to-face with mystery. And then our heartbreak is wisdom, and there comes an open heart, and then the open heart has a shot at being a whole heart, can't really have a whole heart, can add an open heart, probably maybe can't really ever, you can't have an open heart if it's not open to the heartbreak. 

01:30:33 
Thank you. So, okay, okay, so let's, let's, um... Let me, Henry, please be quiet for a bit and let's hear some reflections and comments and questions. So, yeah, I'll look at the chat, but I think let's do raise a hand if you want to share or ask anything. 

01:31:08 
And we'll proceed from there. Let me just have, I just want one little moment to look at the chat, just to absorb it. Yeah, it feels like the bodhisattva within us all. I love that, that's right, exactly. 

01:31:32 
Letting the unwanted be want to. Lovely. That reminds me of the beautiful, you know, the stone the builders refuse will be my cornerstone. I think that's Jesus, I think. But it's also in Peter Tosh, you know, bring the whalers. 

01:31:55 
Peter Tosh and Bob Marley worked together in the whalers. They had a great song, the stone the builders refuse will always be my head corner stone, the stone that the builders refuse will always be the head corner stone. 

01:32:11 
But just take it in. What a what a saying. The stone the builders refuse. Not good enough, that stone. That's the one. That's the one. So it's an invitation to us. What am I refusing? Okay, Dave. Hi, Dave from Austin. 

01:32:33 
Howdy. Hey, Henry. Hey, just got back from this amazing trip to Costa Rica. And yeah, there's some pretty cool dudes there teaching. So, you know, it was interesting. I got back this morning after a very long travel day, yesterday, and I woke up, and I had this feeling that almost nothing had changed, yet everything had changed. 

01:33:07 
And it was a feeling of what you're talking about coming home. It's like, I'm home now, but I was always home when I was on that trip. And yet there's this meaning of going on the trip that was worth the effort. 

01:33:27 
And I just wondered what your thoughts and your reflections were on travel, going somewhere, coming back, coming home, maybe even in the context of some of us who might be traveling to your in-person, coming up here pretty soon. 

01:33:42 
So anyway, thanks for the opportunity to ask that. Hey, Dave, great to see you. Yeah, Dave was down in Costa Rica with us. this past week, quite a, it's great to meet you down there, Dave. And yeah, I mean, I think there's, we can't deny that there's some place for different, different sort of settings for practice, and the value of going somewhere, I mean, in a physical journey to a physical place, 

01:34:14 
has its, you know, has its place in human spiritual development, for sure. There are, you know, there's sites of pilgrimage that have long been valuable for people to decide, I'm going to set aside this time, and I'm going to prioritize journeying to a particular place. 

01:34:37 
And sometimes the journey there is a big part of it, or just I'm going to go there and be in this sequestered place in order to prioritize some aspects of, of my spiritual development. That's, that's, you know, that's got its value. 

01:35:00 
So I, you know, that's something for us all to explore. At the same time, I do really think that the home we're looking for and the home that we can subside into, fall into, more and more, is always right here, wherever we are. 

01:35:30 
Yeah, there's a kind of a, they used to talk about that. I can't remember the exact phrasing, we're sort of person in a box test or something like that. Like if you were, if you were confined to a box with a few tubes going in and out to support your life for the rest of your life. 

01:35:53 
Could you be at peace as a kind of benchmark of your practice? And I must say, I always sort of kind of thought, no fucking way. Excuse my language. But actually there was a point in my practice when I really realized how possible that was. 

01:36:12 
That there was a point in my practice when it was just the total fulfillment was just present. The total fulfillment was just present and really nothing more was needed. And I think I don't know whether, I'm always thinking that there's successive stages of practice that, I mean, as a young buck, I always thought I'd seen it all. 

01:36:36 
I'd seen it all. You know, I had some sort of pass of horizon, and suddenly store great new vista. Now I've got it. I've seen it all. And then actually, you know, a few weeks or a few months or a few years on, oh no, there's another whole new vista. 

01:36:55 
And on and on like that. And then there's vistas within that have to be opened up as well. And so I don't think there's any end to practice. So I think that little test is all very well. But actually more important, perhaps at some point, maybe, well, how are we manifesting it in the world? 

01:37:16 
You know, yeah, maybe you could be buying in a box, but assuming you're not in a box, what are you doing to help? And Zen has that, the end of the 10 ox herding pictures or eight ox herding pictures in some versions in the Zen tradition is not at peace in the hermitage on the mountain top. 

01:37:37 
It's down in the marketplace, bringing gifts back in normal, normal, normal life. And it turns out the whole journey of expiration was preparatory. Wasn't quite in and of itself the same. So apropos of going places, it may well be, yeah, part of our part of our journey. 

01:38:06 
That's great. There's something sweet. And, you know, yeah, I know some of you are coming to Santa Fe. The later part of this week for our in-person, our first ever original in-person event. So that's a change because the value, I think, of this program, my point of view, and it sounded like for many, is like actually having practice sessions right in our homes. 

01:38:32 
But, you know, you just go to the living room, go to the kitchen. That's really, in a sense, where practice needs to happen. You know, how alive is our practice when we're making breakfast? You know, that's also another kind of litmus test. 

01:38:49 
So yeah, thanks. Nicole, hi. Thank you. Can you hear me now? Okay. Well, first, I'm so happy to see you, Henry, and I so deeply appreciate your teaching. And I just wanted to share that since the last session of Original Love, I've been meditating with one bright pearl. 

01:39:27 
And I had an experience, as I guess they happen, that they just happen, when everything became light. And it was such an extraordinary feeling, and it didn't last long. But it was my first sort of experience, and I just wanted to share that, and to thank you. 

01:39:58 
Nicole, thank you. Thank you so much for sharing that. Let me just check. I heard, did he say everything became light? It's sort of like, you know, I was sitting with one black girl, and then everything, it was no longer me. 

01:40:15 
It was just, everything just expanded into this light, into this endless light. Yes, how sweet, how beautiful, wonderful. Yeah, and it cut right through between you and the world, right? There was no... 

01:40:34 
Yeah, exactly. It's just one light. Yeah, I get it. I think that's, you know, really, he was expressing that, don't you think? One bright pearl. Exactly. That's the point, is one. I think the most emphatic thing in one bright pearl is actually the word one. 

01:40:57 
And yeah, it can, I mean, I'm with you, it can show up. I'd say there are different faces we'll see of it, actually. Like, light, absolutely, just one brightness, illumination, one illumination. And sometimes it's even one scintillating darkness, it can be that way too. 

01:41:18 
And sometimes it's just one awareness. And I think it's also, it's really, the heart of this, do you know it's that feeling of, it's just such an openness, yeah. Ah, sweet. So everybody else, just note, you know, these things happen. 

01:41:39 
And the reason they happen is that they're real. You know, they are our very own consciousness, right here and now. It actually has kind of, you could say, different levels in it right now. And in this program, the point is all we're doing is sinking more into who and what we are. 

01:42:06 
It's like I think the image will be more like instead of sort of clinging to keep up, I didn't like we're pulling ourselves out so we can see the way we're used to seeing. We just let go. That's the idea in this program. 

01:42:21 
We're just releasing that and coming home more and more and more. And there may be levels of that homecoming where all that sense of separate me distinct from world, they just blur or vanish and we discover. 

01:42:50 
singularity, a oneness. Okay. Thank you, Nicole, for saying that. Beautiful. Great. Hey, Sean. Hi. Hi, Henry. Thank you very much for your talk today. Beautiful. So great to be getting started again in another year. 

01:43:13 
How original. I wanted to ask about an experience I had where I was woken up in the middle of the night. And I was pushing myself up from my bed because something seemed to be coming up from underneath. 

01:43:28 
And I suddenly fell into this boundless space. And I can't get to the end of it. And it's a luminous space. And I wonder now, how do I work with this? You know, where is the space? And is it right here right now? 

01:43:56 
Is it, it felt like the inside of my heart actually felt. Ah, yes. Yes. Sean, that's beautiful. Wow. Wow. It's quite the day for see having time off. You see how valuable it is. We haven't met since December or whenever the last one was. 

01:44:13 
And all this was harvest of amazing experiences. See, but yeah, Sean, I mean, you're on it. That's it. I mean, well, actually, you know, just, just, just question, I would question why need to work with it. 

01:44:27 
What does that even mean? Yeah, there's nothing there to work with. There's nobody to work with it. See the question, how do I work with it comes from. It doesn't ask that question. See what I mean? Yeah, exactly. 

01:44:48 
So the thought really we're just you can just release it it is always present it's always present and i liked the way you described that that falling might still be going on i was trying to find the bottom what's that trying to find the bottom but can't can't find it can't see any uh no bottom no there's um there's uh there is a teaching especially strong in terravada that everything is constantly everything the whole of our experience is constantly arising and collapsing at the same time both arising coming forth and collapsing falling you could say endlessly endlessly arising endlessly falling. 

01:45:52 
Yeah, and that means now, it means now, it means now, now. So these aren't the understand, you know, so very, very often we, you know, we have some opening, we discover boundless space, or boundless light, or boundless emptiness, or whatever flavor it might be. 

01:46:18 
And then it's just so common that we want to understand it, instead of get a handle on it. But actually, in the experience itself, there is not getting handle. There is no understanding it, no need, no need. 

01:46:37 
And so gradually, but it's very natural that that kind of sense of a need to do that comes back. But actually, we don't need to. The ongoing path is to inhabit that more while doing our daily, the daily round, having a conversation, sitting on zoom like this, you know, it's not, not present, just because we're focusing, I mean, I'm, you know, I'm talking to you now, and it's fully present this boundlessness, 

01:47:05 
no, there's no need for it not to be, because it just is, you know, so practice. Yeah, on it goes. Well, lovely, lovely. Thank you, Sean. So thank you, Mark. Hi. Yeah. Hi, Mark. Hello, Henry. Thank you so much for your talk today. 

01:47:25 
It was wonderful. This is my first year doing original love, so I can't wait to feel the light. But my question is around, I've been meditating diligently for the last three years or so. And as I meditate, I found that more aware of suffering. 

01:47:50 
like in my life and around the lives of other people. And most of the times it kind of feels like a soft melancholy, but there are times where it feels like a deep sorrow and it's hard to create space around that. 

01:48:13 
I was wondering if you had any insight or guidance. Yes. Okay. Thank you for bringing that. I'm not bringing that up. I would say this, like not knowing anything about the particularities of it. Like, I don't know whether you have, you know, people you're close to who are going through hard things or, you know, whether you yourself are going through hard things or some combination thereof. 

01:48:39 
Most of us, I think do, by the way, it's, you know, it's very common that somehow in our immediate circle there will be suffering. Sometimes it's more manifestly our own and some of it's more manifestly others. 

01:48:52 
And certainly in our slightly wider circles, there will be. And then we look at the world and there's just pounding walls going on, that are just creating so much misery and suffering. And often it seems so pointlessly, like surely this could be done differently. 

01:49:09 
And it can be very disheartening. So there's lots of different sort of levels and approaches and ways we can think about this and approach it. But one thing I would say is that, I think somebody had said in the chat, something about the bodhisattva. 

01:49:25 
And the bodhisattva is someone who, this is in Mahayana Buddhism, actually I don't wanna get too technical, but a bodhisattva, let's just say in principle, is somebody who lives with an open heart. And in other words, they're not closed to suffering. 

01:49:43 
But their response to it is compassion. And compassion means the wish that suffering be relieved. It doesn't just mean empathizing profoundly and feeling the same suffering that others are feeling. The research actually, interestingly on this, there's quite a bit, is that empathy is, let me just say that there's research into empathy versus compassion. 

01:50:16 
Empathy is feeling the suffering of others, but it does not seem to galvanize compassionate action the same way that compassion does. But in other words, there's a distinction between simply feeling the suffering of others versus feeling the compassionate wish that others be relieved of suffering. 

01:50:40 
But also we must remember that that compassionate wish, applies to us as well. I think that's something I was going to say that I didn't quite say in my talk actually, is that the sort of the overall kind of project in non-duality of seeing through the cell can very easily be co-opted. 

01:51:02 
There's a self-acceptance issue in Western culture, like there's a thing in Western culture and it probably comes out of the Judeo-Christian heritage, maybe it comes out of the industrial revolution, or I don't know, where we're not, a lot of people don't believe in self-acceptance. 

01:51:27 
They think that somehow, or it's still less self-compassion, that somehow it's wrong to be kind to oneself, it's self-indulgent to be kind to oneself. And there's a real danger for us, for anybody who's a Western practitioner, of using their practice as part of that self-hate project, or self-non-acceptance project. 

01:51:53 
Well, here's this practice saying, hey, yourself's not real, and you can see through it, great, let me do that because I hate myself, you know. Actually, that's not the point at all. Actually, we really must have love for ourselves, compassion for ourselves, I believe. 

01:52:09 
That's so, so compassion for self and others is, is the response. And I, personally, I don't know, I seem to find that more by allowing myself to be heartbroken when I am heartbroken, rather than not. 

01:52:31 
I think compassion, yeah, I think compassion is, is deeper coming from a broken heart, somehow. Okay, let's go, let's do last, last comment, Philip. Hi, well, Ravens, yeah, well, Paul Ravens, I guess, we're from Brussels. 

01:53:05 
Brussels, oh, welcome, welcome, yeah, great. Okay, go ahead. You're talking about coming home. Normally, a lot of people do meditation in isolation, okay, so we have this hobby, we go somewhere to a sangha, or to a temple, to practice, or at home. 

01:53:27 
And you know what, with this, your practice now, my daughter is sitting here next to me. She said, well, is this and she joined, and she was intrigued. And so this is really coming home. So for the first time, rather than going to the Zen temple, I practice at home, and they never knew what I was doing. 

01:53:46 
And And I find really a very strong sense of harmony. So thank you. It's just making the vision of, yeah, gratitude. Ah, sweet. Thank you, Philip. Thank you. By the way, hey, would you like to say something? 

01:54:01 
What's your name? Philip's daughter. Hello, my name is Magali. Magali? Magali. Magali, okay. And how old are you? Yeah. I'm 14 years old. Okay. Well, welcome. Welcome to this online gathering. It's nice to meet you. 

01:54:22 
I mean, it sort of reminds me of, you know, when I was talking about the, how this program started actually on that beach in Venezuela, you know, it was like, yeah, this, this, the harmony is a good word, actually. 

01:54:33 
I like that. It's that's, that's kind of what I was feeling in those circumstances. That's what I'm trying to share. Like this very simple, comfortable, loving approach to meditation, where we're not. 

01:54:47 
We're not saying it's got to be this way or that way, actually. You know, I think, you know, having been through especially particular kind of training in Zen, but also other kinds of trainers, I know there's different approaches. 

01:55:06 
And somewhere in there, there's this approach of just being, just being, just being. So the practice doesn't become another thing we do. It's the dropping of doing. Very simple. And, you know, I think it's what we're missing, actually, in our ordinary round of things. 

01:55:33 
However great that we have projects and that we're busy with stuff, no problem with that. But we also need every day a little bit of space where we're actually not doing, to just kind of honor the very fact that we exist is how I feel it. 

01:55:51 
It's so, you know, the most important thing of all is that you exist. That's the most important thing you actually exist. Now, what that existence is can indeed be studied and get pretty damn interesting. 

01:56:05 
But the basic fact that you exist, you exist. That's the most important thing of all. And we so easily overlook it. I see practices, the most key basic sort of responsibility of a practice is to help us acknowledge and be aware of the fact that we exist. 

01:56:36 
That's the basic thing. OK, so that's what I'm hoping this program this year will help us all do recognize that we. exist. God, what a gift. What a gift. Okay, so folks, there's time. I really, I'm going to read, let's, we'll have to close now, because we don't want to go over. 

01:57:02 
Luke, how about keeping it open a little bit with some nice music. We can just, you know, leave as we need to. I'm going to be reading through the chats, just because I want to, and much gratitude to everybody. 

01:57:15 
Gratitude to you, Luke, and to Jeremy behind the scenes, and looking forward to next time. Thank you all very much. 
