
00:04 
Hello. Hello and welcome everyone. We're so glad you're here. Welcome to the second session of the guest house with Henry Schuchman. A special welcome to all of you who are joining us here live on Zoom. 

00:27 
And also a special welcome to everyone who's watching the recordings later on. We are so glad you are here. I'm really glad to be back with you. A big thank you to Sarah for subbing for me last week. 

00:42 
I heard it went really well. And for those of you who haven't had the chance to meet yet, I am Abby. I use she and they pronouns. I will be the Zoom host and facilitator for today's session, which includes tech support. 

01:00 
So please send me a direct message if you have any questions throughout today's session or need some support. And I am joining you from the unceded land of the Tewa people known as Oga Poggay Owingay and colonized as Santa Fe, New Mexico. 

01:21 
And I have a little activity for us to do together. For those of you who were here in our last course, you're familiar with this interactive activity to share where we're calling in from. This is truly a global Sangha that we have here. 

01:40 
And so it's really fun to visually see where everybody is calling in from. So in a moment, I'll share my screen. I have a couple of slides that walk you through how to use this tool on Zoom called Annotate. 

01:54 
And then we'll do the activity. And if you have any trouble following along, you can always use the chat to say hi and say where you're calling in from. So here's our map. And now that I'm sharing my screen, you should see a little green pencil icon pop up in the bottom left-hand corner. 

02:22 
You can see this arrow pointing to it. And once you click on that green pencil icon, it should pop up a toolbar on the left-hand side of your screen. And then usually a check mark. Yeah, y'all got it. 

02:43 
And I see your names at least. There we go. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Little stamps. The check mark is usually the stamp tool. So you'll see that people are already putting in hearts. So again, clicking that green pencil icon, it pops up a toolbar. 

02:59 
It's probably a check mark is the stamp tool and you can use a heart or another shape to put where you're calling in from. Really beautiful to see lots all over the North American continent. Lots coming in through Europe. 

03:23 
All over, yeah. Wow, thank you for doing this. And if again, please feel free to check in via chat. And once you've put a stamp in, my checking question for you this day is what is one thing you're welcoming in as we join this space together? 

03:46 
So maybe there's a guest that is present for you at this moment that you're sitting with and welcoming into our collective space that we can hold together. And maybe it's an actual guest, like a furry friend that you have joining you for today's session. 

04:11 
For me, I'm welcoming in lots of gratitude, gratitude for all of you and to be here. And I also have a lovely cat who you can't see but is here with us in the background. She loves to support these Zoom calls. 

04:29 
Beautiful, I'm gonna stop this share and read a few of these chats, what folks are welcoming in the unplanned for. Yeah, that's beautiful. Uncertainty is very present. Bye everyone, Violet and Rhode Island, welcoming. 

04:55 
in gratitude, welcoming in impatience, worry, gratitude, oh, a headache, sending care to you. Yeah, thank you all for sharing. Oh, I see some furry friends as well. That's really lovely. Thank you all for participating in that activity and for checking in in the chat. 

05:23 
Again, we're glad you're here and I'm going to pass it over to Henry for our guided meditation. Thank you so much, Abby. Thank you, everybody, for being here from wherever you're calling in from. I'm actually just still looking through these amazing chats. 

05:46 
It's absolutely lovely to see this you know this this guest house that we are, we ourselves are creating with this Sangha and all the different parts of the world and all of us being welcomed in by our collective guest house. 

06:14 
So there's guest house upon guest house, there's the guest house that we hear about in the poem, each human being is a guest house. But then there's Sangha is a guest house. Sangha has this particular gathering, this particular gathering for these weeks that we're together on this Sangha journey. 

06:38 
And then of course there's the guest house of this incomparable home of a planet blooming in the midst of a great universe of minerals, gases, liquids, solids and blooming right here, blooming with life, the biosphere, like a radiant planet. 

07:09 
I mean we haven't yet found another planet with, I think there's traces of life perhaps on other planets, but we haven't yet found another one blooming like this one. This is another guest house. Of course the solar system is a guest house, the Milky Way, our galaxy is a guest house, and the great billions of galaxies that our galaxy is a part of, another guest house. 

07:38 
So we're learning actually to recognize this guest house idea at different levels. What is in the guest house of our heart? What is in the guest house of our awareness. How big is our awareness? Is it actually a vast guest house? 

08:01 
So we're exploring guest house. I want to, before we have our sit actually, I want to just play you all a short poem. It's a funny little bit of background to this. It's actually a prose poem. That's to say, it's like a very short, beautiful piece of prose written by Alexander Solzhenitsyn. 

08:31 
I'm going to just hit pause for a second. How's my audio? All good? All good? Yeah? Okay, I just didn't want to make, last time I actually, the audio wasn't that It wasn't perfect to begin with, but anyway, it's great to hear it's good now. 

08:57 
Yeah, Solzhenitsyn, you know, I'm sure many of you will know of him. Great Soviet author who spent years in the Gulag in the prison camps of Siberia and wrote a tremendous book one day in the life of Ivan Denisovich about life in a prison camp. 

09:14 
I read it when I was a youngster. My parents were both in Russian studies and Solzhenitsyn was a big part of our lives, actually. And funnily enough, my best friend as a kid, Sam Willits, a great, great poet, his dad was also in Russian studies, worked alongside my dad. 

09:36 
His dad was Solzhenitsyn's favorite translator into English and he translated all the major works of Solzhenitsyn. But there was a volume that Penguin publishers put out called something like Stories and Prose Poems of Solzhenitsyn. 

09:54 
And here's a really weird little coincidence thing. Just the other day, this old friend of mine from the UK who runs a little poetry institute on the island of Crete in the summers and I was honored and privileged and lucky to be invited down by him a few times to teach poetry at this little institute. 

10:18 
But recently he sent to his network and that included me an audio and the audio was of him reading several of Solzhenitsyn's prose poems. There was no particular explanation as to why he was doing that. 

10:34 
He just wanted to do it and he read them incredibly well. And here's the funny little twist of this very personal thing that actually, although Sam's dad, Harold Willits, he was called, translated Solzhenitsyn's prose poems. 

10:52 
big novels. His prose poems that were published in this little book by Penguin were published by Sam's mum and my mum as a collaboration. They translated it. So it actually blew my mind to hear this again because I hadn't thought about it in decades but it's so beautiful that it's sort of fitting for what we're doing here so we're gonna we're gonna hear it right now and I thought well I'll just read it. 

11:22 
No, I want you guys to hear this friend of mine Stewart reading it. He does it beautifully. So Abby, this is how we're gonna start our sit by the way. I mean you don't need to sit yet, just listen to this and then we'll go into our sit right after it. 

11:39 
Abby, if you if you'd be kind enough to play that that'd be great. Alexander Solzhenitsyn 1970. Freedom. to breathe. A shower fell in the night, and now dark clouds drift across the sky, occasionally sprinkling a fine film of rain. 

12:10 
I stand under an apple tree in blossom, and I breathe. Not only the apple tree, but the grass round it glistens with moisture. Words cannot describe the sweet fragrance that pervades the air. I inhale as deeply as I can, and the aroma invades my whole being. 

12:43 
I breathe with my eyes open. I breathe with my eyes closed. I cannot say which gives me the greater pleasure. This, I believe, is the single most precious freedom that prison takes away from us, the freedom to breathe freely as I now can. 

13:12 
No food on earth, no wine, not even a woman's kiss is sweeter to me than this air steeped in the fragrance of flowers, of moisture and freshness. No matter, this is only a tiny garden, hemmed in by five-story houses like cages in a zoo. 

13:39 
I cease to hear the motorcycles backfiring, radios whining, the burble of loud speakers, as long as there is fresh air. to breathe, under an apple tree, after a shower, we may survive a little longer. 

14:10 
Thank you, Abby. And thank you, Alexander Sogenitsyn, and thank you, Stuart Wills, for reading that poem so beautifully. He's, you'll have gathered, he's out of the gulag at last. If any of you are curious, you know, he has great books on Stalin's Russia and After, including on the Siberian prison camps. 

14:40 
There's also a very fine film that was made in the, probably around then, 1970, of One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich. It's an extraordinary, beautiful book, even in the midst of the extreme suffering of a prison camp. 

15:01 
The freedom to breathe freely. The freedom to breathe freely. I don't know that I can think of a poem that's so powerfully conveys what a gift it is to have this very next breath. Thank you. It's hard for us to really slow down and dial in and be aware at the depth, the level that's needed to really know what a gift this breath is. 

15:58 
There's a Zenkoan, the Master is invited to some potentate palace and is expected as a matter of course to offer sort of prayers and gatas chanting for the well-being of the principality and so on. And he doesn't, he just sits there quietly, eats the food he's given, sits there quietly and the potentate says, well why aren't you doing, why aren't you reciting sutras and sastras in the scriptures and commentaries? 

16:40 
And he says, don't you know, don't you realize? When I breathe in, I'm reciting millions upon millions of sutras. lives. When I breathe out, I'm reciting millions upon millions of sastras. My every breath is the great prayer, the ultimate prayer of thanksgiving, gratitude, of hope and supplication, promise, blessings of well-being, each breath. 

17:25 
Okay, so let's get ourselves settling in for meditation. Getting arranged as you want to be, body organized as you want it. Meditation, you know, classically, of course, it's upright, sitting upright. 

17:50 
But lying down is actually equally good standing if it's more comfortable. You could even be doing very slow walking if you want. You probably find it easier, this meditation, with not walking. Reclining to some degree or having your back well supported. 

18:20 
If you like that. If your back is not supported, it's good to be balanced. So finding your way to balance. Thank you. This being human is a guest house. Every morning a new arrival, a joy, a depression, a meanness, some momentary awareness comes as an unexpected visitor. 

19:00 
Welcome and entertain them all. Even if there are a crowd of sorrows who violently sweep your house empty of its furniture, still treat each guest honourably. They may be clearing you out for some new delight. 

19:22 
The dark thought, the shame, the malice. Meet them at the door laughing and invite them in. Be grateful for whoever comes, because each has been sent as a guide from beyond. Thank you. So as we settle into stillness, we can also start to soften the body, letting jaw relax, letting throat go soft, face soft, shoulders, arms, hands, chest and belly, whole upper body, soft. 

20:28 
Hips, legs, feet, whole lower body, also soft. Thank you. It's starting to taste stillness. Thank you. Sometimes, stillness is a little bit like a kind of space, space within the body, that the body, also space the body, is in, space around us, still. 

21:26 
Thank you. And, and in this space of stillness, it's, it's sometimes easier to get a sense of guests, what guests are present, what parts of us are here, what, what aspects of our being, what energies. 

22:01 
Thank you. maybe pockets of pleasure, of ease, and some little pockets of stress or tension, also perhaps, equally welcome all of them. . that welcome, really that's our meditation. . So rather than our meditation being organizing things the way we want, engineering states of mind we want, what if the real meditation is the hosting, the welcoming? 

23:26 
Thank you. They're allowing. Thank you. So we can start to get a little more fine-grained, really detecting what's present. We can just give a little more attention to the body again before we do that, really see how loose you can let your arms be, so the joints, the shoulders, the elbows, the wrists, and the knuckles are all really loose, like a puppet hanging from a hook, there's no tension in them, 

25:03 
just dangling. Thank you. And then we invite that same looseness into the upper body, the whole upper body, the clavicles, the shoulder blades, the ribcage, spinal column, the belly, the bowels, everything just loose. 

25:45 
Thank you. And also letting hips, knees, ankles be loose. Thank you. Thank you. Let the sides of the torso, the flanks, be warm and soft. Thank you. Let the back of the ribs be, let the back ribs be warm and soft. 

26:50 
Let front ribs be warm and soft. Thank you. Diaphragm, warm and soft. Abdomen, belly, warm and soft. arms and legs, or full limbs, warm and soft. Thank you. Now, let's see if we can be very patient and sort of delicate and just detect what kinds of energy might be in the heart area, in the chest, in the diaphragm just below the chest. 

28:18 
Thank you. Is it warm? Is it spacious? Thank you. Are there wisps of subtle energies of possibly a little tightness or a little density? . Whatever we're finding, more important than what we're finding is how we welcome it, is the genial host, or perhaps a sort of impassive host, impartial host, fully ready to welcome whatever subtle energies might be present. 

30:21 
Thank you. Now, it's so common that when we have some emotional discomfort, we can get distressed about that, especially actually as meditators. It's not at all uncommon that we've got some ideal that we ought to be sitting in bliss all the time when meditating, unimpaired bliss, you know. 

31:21 
And so often it's not like that. And actually the power and the value really of our meditation, if I can put it like that, the helpfulness of it is actually precisely in the capacity that it gives us to not mind so much what's present inwardly, to be a kind host. 

32:08 
And we all can do it, you know. Imagine some central, you know, European inn. The bar room downstairs is filled with all kinds of types, not only the well-heeled and well-behaved, but the landlord might want all kinds of types are in there. 

32:39 
Noisy types in the corner, ruffians slouching at the table and spilling their beer, roisterous and so on. And the innkeeper welcomes them all. Thank you. Heartbreak, frustration, rage, fear, anxiety, regret. 

33:49 
What if the full human array were really allowed? Thank you. And, you know, at any given time, there may be more one flavor than another, but whatever flavor that is, is absolutely welcome. Thank you. 

34:55 
Now, one of the guests we may often find is the one who says no, we can't welcome this one or that one, a resistance to what might be present, but actually that's another guest. Resistance is also welcome. 

35:24 
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Sometimes we detect something that we just really don't know how we can allow it, how we can welcome it, and so we can just be with that. Just be with the non-allowing. 

36:25 
Be, just sort of gently be with it. Don't try to change it. Thank you. Gently rest alongside it. Thank you. Sometimes I feel it's a little like if you've ever lain down beside a big dog and how they sometimes like to slightly lean against you when they're lying down. 

37:20 
It's a little like that, you just let there be contact with the sort of unmoving part or the don't try to do anything about it, just be with it. Somehow, gradually, some kind of patience may emerge. That lets, that knows how to let things be this way. 

38:10 
Thank you. Thank you. This is, it's almost a kind of non-aspirational practice, it's sort of the opposite of aspiring to great insights, great discoveries, and great states of mind. It's much more sort of humble than that, but it may be, in the end, more powerful, more useful, more helpful, more awakening, just to ever more thoroughly wholeheartedly be with whatever's here and sort of above all including things we might think of as obstacles or hindrances, 

39:42 
things getting in the way of our great enlightenment. What if those very things are actually the promise, the fertilizer, the nourisher? They are precisely the guides from beyond. The very thing we think we have to get rid of in order to be better at this practice. 

40:18 
Those might be, in point of fact, the very gateways, the very presence of what we think we're seeking. There's not that. Thank you. We're just letting, letting yourself gently lean on whatever those, those unmoving objects may be, as it were, like a sleeping dog. 

41:14 
Not trying to do anything. And if you'd like, if you're curious, you can just see if it's possible to just be with the experience of allowing, of welcoming. Thank you. It's just a very subtle shift in direction over tension or awareness. 

43:18 
We can be aware of allowing something, some energy, some sensation in the body that seems potentially something we wouldn't want and just being with it. As I've been describing, then we can also be aware of the very condition of allowing what is the experience of allowing, of welcoming. 

44:19 
Where is it in the body? It might be all pervasive or... or it might be, or concentrated in a certain area, what's it like allowing, welcoming, you know, no aspiring, just really being with a little quality of being with. 

45:00 
Thank you. What does allowing or welcoming feel like in the body? Thank you. what's actually happening when allowing is present. Thank you. Is there, for example, a kind of warmth in the heart area, possibly? 

47:39 
Is there some kind of tenderness? Or is there something like hope? Thank you. or maybe gratitude, or some kind of openness, or maybe something else. Thank you. Can we can we get a sense of the of the fine line between what allowing is like and what non-allowing is like. 

49:01 
We might even toggle from allowing to non-allowing. What's the difference? And then back to allowing. Thank you. giving, allowing, allowing time for allowing to re-establish. What changes? It's probably very subtle, but what is it? 

50:06 
Thank you. Is it possible that there's a single little drop of compassion, maybe, that comes in and makes the difference? Well, perhaps not. Something else. Thank you. Another investigation is, what happens to whatever we were not allowing when we do allow? 

51:36 
. Does it simply go away, or does it change in some way? How? How so, if it does? Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We can gently come out of the sit if we'd like to, by all means, you know, flow on longer if that's what you'd like to do, but for those of us who are having a pause, we'll have a glass of water or do a little washing up, whatever you feel cool to do for a few minutes. 

54:50 
And we'll reconvene in, in, um, eight minutes time. Thanks everybody. Thanks Abby. Everyone, if you're still meditating, then you can tune me out. But for those of you, as you're gently coming out of a beautiful meditation offering, I'm going to, in a moment, open up a poll for you to participate in. 

55:29 
If you would like to choose up to three questions you're most interested in having answered during today's Q and A. Sometimes the poll might pop up in a new window for you. So I just launched it. If you have questions, you can send me a chat and we'll see you in about seven minutes. 

56:00 
Thank you. You You Thank you. You You You You You You Thanks for watching! Thanks for watching! Thank you everybody for coming along for the ride in that meditation. I love it actually, you know, after, as somebody who spent a lot of his years in meditation doing the opposite of that, trying to, trying to vanish, get rid of things I thought were inappropriate for meditation. 

01:00:49 
Stress and anxiety and frustration and impatience and, and, uh, uh, disgruntlement and malice and, and hate, even, and regrets and remorse. Somebody spent a lot of time like, Oh my gosh, how bad I am at this practice because I'm feeling these things, you know, and, and I've got to be having these, you know, spectacular awakenings and openings where, you know, all sense of self vanishes and I'm just bathed in, 

01:01:24 
oh, soaking in timeless, infinite, spaceless, eternal bliss. That's what this is for, you know, but actually it's incredible how we may find some of those things, some of those very beautiful things in precisely the opposite direction by not resisting, by learning to be with all the things we think are the obstacles to that or the things getting in the way of that. 

01:01:58 
There's a, there's some kind of deep mysterious wisdom in this guy is so counterintuitive, but I think Zen certainly points to it, you know, in many of his teachings, but I think so does, um, you know, Christianity in that line that is my favorite line in Christianity. 

01:02:17 
Not that I know Christianity very well, but the stone, the builders refuse will be my cornerstone. You know, if we can almost to call this, we call it the guest house, but from that phrase we could have called it the cornerstone. 

01:02:34 
The stone that the builders refuse, the stone they don't want, they think it's shaped wrong, it doesn't serve the purpose of the building that they're trying to build, the stone the builders refuse, that will be my cornerstone. 

01:02:48 
That will be the anchor. The cornerstone is the one, you know, for that everything else is built from that. The very thing I refuse and reject, that will be the foundation. So, very counterintuitive, you know, but man is powerful, because, I mean, what can happen is exactly like Rumi says in that little poem, that the very thing, you know, we wouldn't think we want to host and invite in. 

01:03:30 
That is the guide from beyond. Beyond, I don't think it's sort of some metaphysical statement of, you know, beyond in the universe or something. I think it just means beyond our knowing. beyond our understanding, because a path of practice, a path of sort of real growth through meditation or whatever the practice may be, any real path of practice is always a path into what we don't know. 

01:04:00 
If it's a path into what we already know, who needs it? That's not the path of growth. The path of growth is one into what we do not know, therefore from beyond, beyond the borders of what we think we know, what we think we can experience, what we have experienced. 

01:04:18 
You know, the whole point of these spiritual paths is that they expand our experience. Okay, so here's what I want to just kind of just tiny bit summarize last time. We were looking at some of the human neurological wiring that creates difficulty for us, you know, that we've got Rick Hansen. 

01:04:50 
I was quoting a lot from Rick Hansen, his book Hard Wiring Happiness. It's a helpful book, by the way, if you want some kind of fairly concise, very easily graspable understanding of neurology and central nervous system and how meditation can impact that. 

01:05:15 
Likewise, his book Buddha's Brain, by the way, but you know, we've got the three layers of the brain, basically reptilian, mammalian, primate slash human. We've got each of those can be in its green zone where it's content, in a safe, satisfied, connected, or in its red zone, where there's danger, you know, or insufficiency, or isolation. 

01:05:43 
And And, you know, really the brain, this brain we have evolved, you know, the sapiens brain kind of evolved in the last 300,000 years for very different conditions. And in living in, you know, the savannah or by and large, and there's a lot of background here, but, you know, we were sort of, as it were, neurologically designed to be mostly in a pretty mellow state, rest and digest, but able to fire up for brief periods of, 

01:06:23 
you know, stressful activity, hunting, fighting, you know, and then back down, back down to rest and digest. These days we tend to live with a lot of, you know, mild to moderate to high activation. and stress, so there's a mismatch between the way we live and the way we're wired. 

01:06:49 
That's one view. Now, I wanna just make one thing clear actually that this is one side of the kind of wiring that practice clearly evolved in order to help us with. I'm talking about primarily Buddhist practice because I know that best, but other forms of practice as well, other traditions. 

01:07:11 
They seem that this is one side of what they were trying to address, but there's kind of a, obviously, closely interconnected, but slightly different side of our wiring. And that's what I'm gonna get into now that is also in the lens, in the target zone for these practices. 

01:07:31 
And that's really more about our, well, how do I come at this in the clearest way? Basically, it's about our social wiring, and you can find out more about this in Robert Sapolsky's book, Behave, which is a pretty massive tome on the psychology and neurology and endocrinology of human behavior, human interaction, but all this little book that I love called Survival of the Friendliest, which is the subtitle is Understanding Our Origins and Rediscovering Our Common Humanity. 

01:08:22 
Basically, it's a study of dogs which are highly collaborative and really good at understanding theory of mind where you get that another being is trying to communicate with you, and it understands where you're at, that other being is, You know, humans are great at this, dogs are really good at it, chimps somewhat but not as good, bonobos really good at it. 

01:08:51 
So certain species, the ones that are more domesticated, get really good at it. They can tell that another member of the species is trying to communicate with them to help them. It's trying to give them information that will help them. 

01:09:08 
And chimps are really, really not so good at this. Dogs are good at it, bonobos are good at it. So where this book goes, if anybody's curious about it, by Brian Hare and Vanessa Woods, Survival of the Friendliest, it's sort of, it's a brief and fascinating survey of domestication of dogs and wolves, sorry, foxes and wolves into dogs. 

01:09:34 
There's been a long-running Soviet piece of research on the domestication of foxes. over now about 60-70 years. It's quite extraordinary, actually, how they got these foxes domesticated. In other words, very friendly with humans and with one another, and how the foxes changed over the generations and became more dog-like. 

01:10:00 
But the big sort of takeaway from it for us humans is that essentially we've got... So if you look at chimpanzee society, yeah, they can be cuddly and friendly and nice, but man, they can be vicious. 

01:10:16 
They have a sort of alpha male social structure, and the alpha male has his bruises, his henchmen around him. And if anybody threatens the alpha male status, they will literally rip them apart. They're incredibly violent. 

01:10:33 
And they'll be violent to children, they'll be violent to infants. It's quite shocking. I mean, maybe some of you know this already. On the other hand, and of course, the alpha male is the highest status individual. 

01:10:48 
On the other hand, bonobo groups, you know, bonobos are kind of similar to chimps. I think it was only not that long ago that they were distinguished from chimpanzees, I think. Bonobos have a totally different social structure whereby the highest status individual is an infant, a baby, a young child, and the highest status being measured by access to food. 

01:11:12 
The babies get it first. And if some bruiser of a male tries to get it first, then there'll be aggression, and it will come from a group of mothers. They'll come at that, you know, maybe adolescent male, and really, you know, they won't tear it to pieces, but they'll stop it from getting the food. 

01:11:34 
And likewise, any male that tries to get into a position of authority, the group of mums will stop it, but non-violently, some aggression, but non-violently. And often they distract with sex, that sort of thing, they diffuse aggression with sexuality, and they were known as the free love apes or something like that, because they're a lot more peaceful. 

01:12:06 
And the summary is we humans have got both sides. We've got the Bonneville wiring, and we've got the chimpanzee wiring when it comes to violence and aggression and social cohesion, that we can get really, we can be incredibly, wonderfully collaborative. 

01:12:32 
And of course, all our cultural achievements, language and architecture and, you know, food systems and... all kinds of stuff that we've evolved and build on over the generations. That's all come from cooperative, collaborative communication, and even then cultural learning that goes on expanding, developing on generation by generation. 

01:13:02 
And that's fantastic, but at the same time we've got the chimpanzee wiring as well. And we can, and this is the important point in this book that I think is one that we might not want to take on board, is that it's not cultural, it's species. 

01:13:26 
It's not that certain cultures create a lot of violence. Actually, it's in our species, because it's very tempting to... I grew up in post-war Britain, half Jewish. So there was a pervasive idea that the appalling violence of Nazi Germany, the 12 years of Nazi rule in Germany, that that was about Germans, that was about German culture, German people. 

01:14:09 
Rubbish, you know, it's about human beings. And that's the takeaway in this book, Survival of the F***ers. So, it's not just this guest house thing, it's not just that we're trying to feel better, have less anxiety, be more fluid. 

01:14:40 
open with our heartbreaks. It's not just about that, how to live with fear, how to live with sorrow, how to live with frustration and disappointment. No, it's also, there's a piece of work to be done for all of us in recognizing our inherited capacity to dehumanize other human beings. 

01:15:05 
That's the heart of this profound aggression and violence is dehumanizing. In all conditions where there's genocide, you know, going on, whenever it's gone on, there's always been dehumanizing. Whenever there's the kinds of things that we're seeing in this country now of like really violent oppression of vulnerable people, there's dehumanizing. 

01:15:32 
There's always dehumanizing in the mix. Somehow those people are not quite human the way we are. They're lesser. They don't matter. We don't want them here. You know, that's a dehumanizing statement that all those people in those countries We don't want them here They're all deficient Some somehow compared to what we are that's this tendency is very strong in us To it can easily be switched on and incited to dehumanize so all the above Both the inner trouble that we have and these sort of interpersonal inter social social problems that we're air to They're all Up for grabs. 

01:16:21 
They're all part of what These deep wisdom traditions one would like us to work on if I can put it like that They're all part of the reason why these great traditions have survived Well, it's not that long 2,500 years. 

01:16:41 
That's not really very long In in human history, how many generations a hundred generations or something? Kind of nothing, but probably they they they themselves have long long antecedents I assume that just aren't recorded pretty prehistorically, you know so I Want us to just see if we can get a sense that To do the kind of training that would both help us for ourselves and Would help us By making us less potentially harmful to other human beings But to do the kind of training that would help on both those levels is Actually a sort of a gift To do that training. 

01:17:30 
It's a gift to ourselves and it's a gift to the world Where we could take that hard talk about this in places that we could be turning, we could be doing the work on ourselves that would allow our life to become a gift to the world because it's non-harming, first of all. 

01:17:57 
And then more than non-harming, in other words, can I do this training so that I can make myself into a gift to the world, that I become sort of a creature of safety for other creatures? I turn myself into an instrument of safety. 

01:18:17 
Isn't that a... I want to make myself a gift to the world. But actually, it's not just that. I also, I actually deserve to be happier. Or there's no reason why I don't deserve to be happier. So my practice can be a gift to me. 

01:18:39 
as well. Somehow my life has been given. It might be a little hard to say it's been given by the universe to me, I don't really know, but it's been given. Whatever this is, whoever I am, whatever the universe is, this experience of being alive right now in this body, mind, heart, this has been given. 

01:19:05 
So actually, wouldn't it be, how can I put this, wouldn't it be right to receive the gift, to appreciate the gift, to be grateful for the gift, and can I really do that, can't I do that better if I'm learning how to really appreciate it? 

01:19:31 
In other words, learning how to be a bit happier, right? So these traditions, wisdom traditions, I think in those traditions, basically wisdom, and kindness, and happiness, and they kind of all go together, really. 

01:19:56 
Can you be wise if you're miserable? Can you be wise if you're unkind? I don't think so. And if you're kind, you will be happier. And actually, if you're kind, you will be a little bit wiser. And if you're happy, you're more likely to be kind. 

01:20:16 
And also, you probably already got some wisdom if you're happier. So I think the three dimensions of it all sort of work together. Okay, now, I want to just, I said this last time, just a little general overview of the process of this course that I want to be working through. 

01:20:39 
kind of looking at various sort of methods and approaches historically that have been basically mostly in Buddhism, little bits of therapy and neuropsychology as well. And, you know, we didn't get right into this last time, but the kind of canonical early Buddhist teaching of the Four Noble Truths is there's suffering. 

01:21:08 
Suffering is caused by craving, I would say really craving-slash-resisting, and there's an end to suffering that's possible, because it's an end to the craving-slash-resisting. It's not promising no pain, it's promising no suffering. 

01:21:30 
We're, you know, we're heir to pains of different kinds, physical and to some extent psychological and emotional, basically. and social as well and we can't get rid of all pain but we can massively reduce suffering and in this formulation suffering is understood as basically the the the distress of resisting pain of thinking pain shouldn't be you know and if we if we do the kind of practice you know if we if we learn from the kind of practice we're doing earlier of allowing we are absolutely dialing down craving and resisting you know we were mostly I know working on resisting in that one allowing but actually it covers craving to the craving something's absent that should be here and just needed something's needed that's not here you know it's not already here and just learning actually to allow that craving to let that be part of the weave of this moment and then we start finding how much is already here how much is already here and how little we need that isn't already here this is enough okay so the fourth noble truth in this early Buddhist formulation is the path and the path is the eightfold part has eight folds to it we're gonna home in I just just we're gonna home in on number six sixth fold and somewhat the seventh fold as well okay so just to let you know eight folds I'm not gonna go over all of them but there are three groups first is understanding and sort of orientation and intention number one second behaving non-harmfully basically second group third group meditating so we could say first first group is wisdom, 

01:23:40 
sort of understanding and orientation, second cluster, kindness, non-harmy, not killing, not stealing, not lying, not misusing sex, basically. Kindness. Third group, meditating for happiness, basically. 

01:24:00 
So it's sort of same sort of formulation I was just talking about. Wisdom, kindness, well-being, let's say. Now, the meditative cluster has three components. This is six, seven and eight, basically. Six is called right effort, and that's the one I really want to dive into. 

01:24:23 
Just so you know, the six is right effort. Seven is right mindfulness, or let's say wise mindfulness, or different translations. Mindfulness, anyway. And the eighth one is samadhi, absorption states. 

01:24:38 
although the word samadhi is a little slippery, it can mean different things, but basically getting thoroughly unified in your meditation. Okay, now, number six, right effort. Okay, I'm going to just, I'm going to read from the one of the early sutras on this particular, on this particular sixth fold of the eight fold path. 

01:25:09 
Okay, so once again, just a reminder, it's got eight folds, but they form three little buckets. But first two are one bucket, wisdom. Third group of three, second group of three, group of three, they're about living more kindly. 

01:25:30 
That's to say, right speech, right action, right livelihood. And right means non-harming and truthful and with integrity. Okay, third group is about meditation. And the first of the cluster is right effort. 

01:25:45 
Okay, this is a real mouthful. Okay, so I might have to read it. It's not long, but man, it's kind of a mouthful and a little bit of a head spinner. So I'll go through it. But don't worry if you don't get it as I read it. 

01:26:02 
It's not the least bit surprising. And what is right effort? Here, a practitioner generates desire for the non-arising of unarisen, evil, unwholesome states. Okay, they're generating the wish that unwholesome states not arise. 

01:26:30 
It's got four components, that's the first. The second component of right effort is that they make an effort. they arouse energy and they apply their mind in order to abandon unwholesome states that have arisen. 

01:26:51 
So number one is sort of the effort to not have unwholesome states arise. Number two, the effort to abandon unwholesome states that have arisen. Thirdly, they generate desire for the continuation, no sorry, thirdly they generate desire for the arising of unarisen wholesome states. 

01:27:23 
In other words, to simplify, they try to bring on wholesome states that haven't arisen. Fourthly, they generate desire for the continuation of arisen wholesome states for their non-decline, their increase, their expansion and fulfilment by development. 

01:27:48 
They make an effort, arouse energy and apply their mind and strive for this. This is called right effort. So just a really simplifier. Trying to not have unwholesome states arise. Trying to diminish unwholesome states that have arisen. 

01:28:11 
Trying to bring on wholesome states that haven't yet come on. And trying to keep wholesome states that have come on. So it's a sort of shift from unwholesome states to wholesome states. That's basically the movement of right effort. 

01:28:39 
I feel a little awkward almost talking about this right after doing a meditation on precisely not effort of any kind. I wonder what Shakyamuni would say to me about that meditation. But actually I know he'd be very happy about it. 

01:28:56 
Because how do you do it actually? Well you don't bring on, you don't dial down craving. What are unwholesome states? We're basically craving and resisting and all that they're heir to. There's all the desires that we have and there's five classic desires. 

01:29:22 
Anybody want to know what they are? In the Buddhist system there's five. There's fame, seeking good renown and fame, seeking wealth, good food, sex and sleep. Those are the five desires that are sometimes... 

01:29:38 
delineated. I mean, I'm sure we could add another 50 if we wanted to, but anyway, there's quite a lot covered in that. And so, unwholesome states are born of what are known as the three poisons, which are desire slash craving, number one. 

01:30:02 
Number two, aversion slash hatred slash ill will. And number three, ignorance slash delusion slash misunderstanding. And they all operate sort of on different levels, like the misunderstanding, the ignorance, the delusion, that can, on its most basic level, it means not understanding these four noble truths. 

01:30:32 
In other words, not understanding what are the causes and source of suffering. and also not understanding what are the causes and source of well-being, of freedom from suffering. To understand our human predicament and how to manage it and tame it and help it to flourish, to understand that is good and ignorance would be on one level just not understanding that. 

01:31:06 
If you go deeper, this varies from tradition to tradition, actually delusional misunderstanding would mean probably above all being beguiled by the sense of self, not seeing that the sense of self is a totally contingent, non-absolute thing that just arises, flashes on and off, it's not consistent actually, it's not continuous, claims to be, but it actually isn't if you really look at it, and if you really look at it there isn't, 

01:31:46 
the sense of self might arise but there's no self that it's actually pointing to, and that applies both to us and to all things, all things lack the thinghood that they appear to have, just as we lack the selfhood that we appear to have, so that would be another different take on what this delusion thing means. 

01:32:11 
I think it's fairly consistent on the other hand with the first two poisons and what they are, so unwholesome states are states governed by any of the three poisons basically, and they're unwholesome because they don't lead to well-being, they aren't fostering a well-being for sin, self or others. 

01:32:40 
And we can see clearly why ill-will, hatred, well, obviously, they're very uncomfortable for us, but they lead to aggression. They may even lead to violence. They may even lead to killing. And that's obviously not good for others, but actually craving will kind of make us very, very uncomfortable. 

01:33:11 
And it'll make us seek things. Whatever is the object of craving, craving will seek it really without regard to how wise it is to seek that thing. The craving will drive us. Of course, there are very manifest forms of addiction. 

01:33:29 
driven by craving and they talk about cravings in the world of addiction recovery, you know, there's exactly the word they use is cravings and but actually outside of substance addiction there's many forms of addiction that that might not be quite so manifestly self-destructive or destructive but probably all of us have some addictions that that you know can be quite powerful and and They're driven by craving So as long as we're sort of at the unexamined mercy of cravings Likewise with the second poison aversion and hate as long as we're at the mercy of them they'll They'll rule our lives. 

01:34:26 
They'll they'll they'll lead us a merry dance, you know, and so the training The practice is To get out to get to know them and to get to defuse their power over us So then we say well, how do you do that and You know one school of thought and I think these are both very valid one school of thought is to really work with them you know to to actually be Becoming more mindful of them and Transforming them another school of thought and said, 

01:35:12 
you know you do that by really working to change them and You can use you can use cognitive methods of really understanding it better how this mechanisms work And you can and you can use Meditative practices with mindfulness to work on them. 

01:35:27 
Another school of thought within Buddhism is don't really work on them, allow them, that's the most powerful defusing of them, is to allow them. And that doesn't mean allow them in the sense of obey them, no, you know, it means allow them in your experience, be the innkeeper, the innkeeper. 

01:35:57 
It's funny, I was just thinking, there's different, historically, there's some, well, there's one particular remarkable innkeeper. I think it's just sort of analogies of innkeepers and spiritual teachings. 

01:36:12 
In the Jewish tradition, the Hasidic tradition of the 18th century in Central Europe, the Baal Shem Tov, he was called, was really really the founder of the whole Hasidic movement, this marvelous free spirit. 

01:36:27 
of a spiritual guy. He was kind of a bit like the best of a Sufi and a Zenny or something. I don't know, a very free-spirited guy. He was an innkeeper. I mean, literally. He actually had an inn. And he talked somewhere about going around the tables with a jug of beer, filling up everybody's glasses. 

01:36:47 
But that was actually what he felt he was doing with his congregation in the prayer house. Not physical beer, but the beer of the Holy Spirit or whatever it was, the beer of the ale of spiritual fire. 

01:37:07 
They called it the fire, the Hittlahavut. They called it this fire that was everywhere. Every deed, every hour is its footstool, every deed it's thrown. It's kind of a little bit like Zen. It's everywhere, whatever this is. 

01:37:25 
And this Holy Ale, sacred ale, was everywhere. Another kind of innkeeping. And then there's the story of Jesus turning water into wine. Another kind of innkeeper, keeping everybody's vessels topped up with an infinite supply of wine. 

01:37:53 
Maybe we take it not to be literally wine. But us, we're inheritors of all this. If we want to be, we are. All you need is a human body, mind and heart, and you're an inheritor of it. And we can do these trainings and these gifts and nourishment openings to well-being. 

01:38:22 
They're for us. They're for exactly us. exactly our life as it is. There's no life exempt, there's no life that's outside the the gift of these traditions. No human life is outside the gift of them. Okay, that's kind of what I wanted to cover today. 

01:38:47 
Well, it's about half of what I want to cover today, but that'll do. Let's go to some questions. And next week, actually next week we're not meeting. We're having a week off and then we're resuming for the last two weeks of June, FYI. 

01:39:04 
So next time we'll be moving on beyond the early Theravada Buddhist approach to Mahayana Buddhism and a bit more full Bozen. So that's the historical plan that we're sort of following as we're picking up different approaches to this practice of defusing through allowing. 

01:39:32 
Okay, thanks very much. Abby, let's go to questions. Yeah, thank you, Henry. So we're gonna do a few questions as usual. If you there is at least one question that has someone's name on it, so if I call your name, please use the raise hand function at the bottom of the screen so that I can easily find you to ask you to unmute, ask your question, and we'll do a few of these and then we'll go into our lightning round. 

01:40:07 
So the first question for you, Henry, is can you comment on the process of welcoming more difficult emotions like malice, hostility, and resentment? This person notices that these feel more shameful than other difficult emotions like grief and anxiety. 

01:40:26 
Grief and anxiety feel a little bit more like they're born out of valuing something versus this malice and hostility being kind of different to work with. Yeah, hey, thanks. This is a great question. 

01:40:40 
I mean, I think in a way it was partly what I was talking about earlier with the, you know, the importance of understanding this, this sort of aggression wiring that we have. And according to this book, Survival of the Friendliest, and I think Robert Sapolsky as well, a key feature is the dehumanizing thing is somehow, especially when it's into, into group is sort of is setting up another group as less than, 

01:41:08 
but we do it, we can do it with individuals as well. So I would say actually what people feel most ashamed of can vary, you know, for some they might feel most ashamed of their ill will, but some people feel ashamed of depression and ashamed of anxiety, and, you know, and unfortunately a lot of us will feel ashamed of shame, if you know what I mean. 

01:41:41 
You know, we only need, you know, this is one of the, this is one of the, this is really one of the barriers to psychological healing and well-being, that somehow we need to negotiate all of us. It's like, but I shouldn't be someone who needs, who has deficient mental health. 

01:42:05 
I shouldn't be like that, you know, and that's shame. And I do think it can attach, yeah, to different kinds of uncomfortable, negative, difficult emotion. But sort of leaving that aside, I think, I think the point is well taken. 

01:42:24 
We do need to work also on malice. absolutely and hate and resentment and you know but I suspect that the way of working with them is is is kind of going to have broadly speaking it's going to be similar in that it is going to be about being the innkeeper and letting you know starting with what's real you know that oh my gosh it's present that kind of you know we do awareness and that kind of must lead to acceptance really that we recognize what's present even the ugly you know and especially really the ugly that we would rather sweep under the rug and whatever we in particular individually feel is most ugly that might vary but whatever it is the thing you least want to acknowledge and you know it's you know you're in time you'll get to it let's hope because it's you know that recognizing that we all inherit this wiring you know in a way we we don't need to be quite so ashamed of it as we might be these are these are human neuropsychological realities and you know kind of the sooner we we admit it really the better okay thanks for bringing that up great thank you um i'm going to ask one other question and then justin hober if you're here you can raise your hand and i'll call on you after this question so this person asks and says my emotions and feelings have become more consuming and have a stronger grip and they unclean again and again unclean in a sit but eventually become irritated and worn out about how many times that they have to begin again it becomes a distraction and after many years of meditating their thoughts are saying they should have arrived at a place of reconciliation with themselves and basically be better at this process so the question is how do they work with this process yeah yeah well a deep sympathy and um i i i remember many a time feeling very like you although probably i wouldn't even get the unclean at any point in a meditation you're lucky if you get if you get that at all you know but i'm of course you know very i do understand and i think um well i would like to say i mean i think probably the practice we were doing earlier is the right kind of direction whereby We're really not measuring our meditation by how much we sort of get rid of unwanted things, 

01:45:36 
unwanted material. We're not measuring it at all. We're actually doing this radical thing of just meeting this moment as it is. And actually the little graph in the back of your mind of should be going in this direction on the graph paper. 

01:46:01 
This should be happy. Just scrumple it up, it's rubbish. The only invitation of meditation is meeting this here now as it is. That's really its bedrock and its fulfillment. There's, yeah, I mean, the further we go, the more we might get hints that this is it. 

01:46:40 
As Thich Nhat Hanh says, this is it. What is arising now is the only thing there is. Thich Nhat Hanh was very beautiful in expressing this. What's arising now, this moment, is all there is, and everything's here. 

01:47:05 
So the only thing there is is this, and everything's here. So if everything's here, again, can we be the welcoming innkeeper, the welcoming host? Rather than the sort of self-assessing adjudicator, judger of, we want you, we don't want you, you know. 

01:47:37 
So that would be a place to start. But yeah, I guess I could go on, maybe at some point we'll do a whole session on exactly this question. Thanks. Okay, Abby, let's go to Justin, but also let's make it lightning now. 

01:47:58 
Great, you have 45 seconds to answer Justin's question. So thinking about right effort, what are signs that a desire to further our practice has actually led to a form of spiritual bypassing? So any tips for finding a wise balance? 

01:48:16 
Yeah, I mean, the first thing I'd say is a lot of people sort of worry about spiritual bypassing, as if it's some sort of, I don't know, really terrible pitfall. it means putting effort into your spiritual practice towards the fixing of things that actually it probably won't address. 

01:48:40 
You could think of it that way, think that you're just a multi-dimensional creature, which you are indeed, and that pouring yourself into spiritual practice can make a lot of difference in a lot of ways, but it might not fix your interpersonal relationships, your close interpersonal relationships. 

01:49:01 
It might not get your projects done more quickly, you know, if you've got a procrastination tendency, you know, you could co-opt oh my gosh, thank you. Okay, let me just finish this sentence. You can co-opt spiritual practice into various other kinds of slightly pathological things if you want to. 

01:49:22 
Just, you know, just be attentive. Keep doing it and do other things that will help you. Okay. Thank you. Next question is, what is the best way to get better at applying some of the meditative practices taught in the way application to daily life? 

01:49:44 
Okay, number one, be patient and do it every day. Meditation every day is the thing that will gradually start to infuse your life all by itself. Number one, number two, you can deliberately pick up a practice every so often. 

01:50:02 
If you've been sitting every time you're about to stand up, hit pause, just say, be here, and then you stand up. Every time you pass through a doorway, stop, say, I'm here, and then pass through the doorway. 

01:50:16 
You know, so throw it in here, here and there in a structured way. Take that harness and say, if you're here to come to a stop sign or a red light, three deep breaths while you're waiting. It's a. phone rings, two deep breaths before you pick it up. 

01:50:31 
So build it into your day like that. But above all, just doing it daily. It just starts to infuse life over time. Okay, great. Thank you. And next one, one of this person's reasons for meditating is to work with low self esteem and negative self talk. 

01:50:51 
And they understand that offering kindness toward themselves is supposed to be helpful. But when they try it, it feels forced and superficial. So how can they work with this resistance and thoughts and help them offer this genuinely to themselves? 

01:51:06 
Yeah, that's great. I can totally relate to that. I mean, the number one thing I think I would probably go for is just getting better at recognizing thoughts themselves. So that means, I think this practice of noticing whether thoughts are auditory and verbal, you know, whether there's talk in the mind, basically, or whether they're visual images. 

01:51:28 
Most thoughts for most of us, most of the time, probably on the whole auditory, talk in the mind. So just label, when you hear that negative voice in the mind, just label talk. Talk, so you know it's talk, or you can even label it negative talk, negative talk. 

01:51:46 
So it's just, the more you start to identify it and know it's going on, the easier it will become to be less enthralled by it, less taken in by it. And I think we can do one more lightning question before we wrap up. 

01:52:07 
How important is going on silent meditation retreats of extended periods of time, particularly given all the demands of life? Yeah, so I mean, this is a great question. I mean, you know, managing and sort of doing your life as it is, fulfilling the commitments that it has in it, whether the family, work, friendships and so on, and service of whatever kind you do. 

01:52:34 
That's, I don't think you should compromise that. You know, I think, I believe that you can go, you can have a tremendous meditation practice with very little silent retreat time. Some people would disagree, but that's my view. 

01:52:49 
And that's partly why we made the way actually, so that you can have meditation right in the midst of your ordinary life in a guided training process, you know. If you can find time for it, well, great. 

01:53:05 
You know, do it as and when you can. There's a kind of approximate formula for a lay practice situation where, yeah, if you can once or twice a year or something, you might try to do a silent retreat when you're ready and when your life is ready. 

01:53:22 
But meanwhile, you don't compromise on daily practice. the day silent repeats are sort of in a way almost I want to say useless if you haven't got the daily practice they fertilize the daily practice think of it that way around you know but if the daily practice is not there it's not it's it's not gonna it's not gonna happen I mean the meditation is not going to serve you really very much if it's not daily five minutes a day is better than half an hour once a week okay thank you appreciate all of your wisdom henry for sharing with us and I have just a couple announcements before we wrap up so as Henry mentioned we'll we won't be meeting next week the next session of this course is on June 22nd so that's two weeks from now and we look forward to seeing you then. 

01:54:29 
And then Henry is starting a retreat tomorrow and while in-person registration is closed, there's still opportunities to join the retreat online. This is a retreat with Spring Washam and Nina Rao in Big Bear, California. 

01:54:45 
I'm sure it will be really amazing experience. And I saw there's like $100 off online registration rates that ends tonight, so definitely check that out. And Henry is also leading a weekend retreat in Berkeley, California, July 26th to 27th. 

01:55:05 
I just posted both links. You'll also get that in a follow-up email, so no worries if you can't open these right now. We'll of course follow up with more info. And deep gratitude to you all being here with us and we look forward to seeing you in two weeks. 

01:55:25 
I'll be here for another five minutes if you'd like to slowly transition out with some soft music. Thank you all. 
