
00:04 
Welcome. Welcome. Welcome, everyone. Welcome to The Guest House with Henry Shookman. We're so glad that you're here, whether you're joining us live on Zoom or you're watching a recording sometime in the future present. 

00:27 
Thank you for being here. This is the first session of this four-week course, The Guest House. Some of you may remember me from previous courses. I'm Sarah Giffen. I'm the executive director of Mountain Cloud Zen Center, but today I am putting on the hat of your MC. 

00:49 
Don't worry, Abby, we'll be back with you all next week and for the remainder of the course, but it's fun to be back for old time's sake and enjoy this day with you. So here we are for The Guest House. 

01:05 
For those of you who are joining the course for the first time, we'll greet each other and then invite Henry into the spotlight here. We'll get into some practice. Hear some teaching from Henry and then of course have some Q&A. 

01:28 
Thank you to all of those who submitted really juicy, lovely questions. We're really excited to get to touch into today. So that's our plan. Thanks to everyone who's been saying hello in the chat and sharing the weather and where you're coming from. 

01:51 
We have a global group here today from Wales to Ecuador. the Tennessee and everywhere in between. So thanks for saying hello. For our little chicken here, we're here for the guest house. So I thought we might just play with that a little bit and imagine ourselves as guests arriving here to this session and arriving here to this moment, you know, standing on the shoulders of so many moments before. 

02:34 
And I'm curious to hear from you all in the chat, what inspired you to accept the invitation to come here today? What inspired you to accept the invitation to this guest house? Please let us know in the chat. 

03:03 
needing help with difficult times, Henry's teaching, being able to relax into my essential self, anxiety, the great invitation of anxiety, spacious curiosity and love, earlier programs, the way, exploring spirituality, trauma flashbacks, the invitation to slow my mind, brilliant answers, I'm having a month, that's an invitation to honor the fullness of this guest house right now, to further open my heart, 

03:54 
becoming more friendly with all thoughts and feelings, to be alive with the master, a deep heartbreak around current and local, current, local and world affairs, building deeper connection to the heart, dealing with loss, ah, thank you all for sharing, being open to a surgery that happens tomorrow, I'm just so touched by all of the many invitations we receive, the diversity of how invitations to show up come to us in our life, 

04:42 
thank you all for sharing all the ways that we've come to hear today, please continue sharing and reading these because you may, you may find a refreshed invitation to yourself here in this chat. Thank you. 

05:11 
Sarah, I'm just going to chime in. Please. Yeah. So I don't want to step on your toes, but... No, I'm winding down and ready to just pass it right on over to you. Welcome Henry. Well, thank you. I mean, but these comments are actually really blowing my mind. 

05:29 
They're so beautiful and there's many. And I kind of, you know, I want to say, you know, we'll be, we're going to be moving into a sit soon. And so maybe you want to want to refer to them later and not just now. 

05:48 
But I mean, you know, I'm living. My roommate in this guest house is cancer, somebody said, and I have I have all these fellow guests that I don't know how to welcome. I want to learn to be a better host, you know, this is, this is, there's so much wisdom and depth of practice and of, you know, what we're the key sort of surrenderings and openings and trustings and learnings that our practice can be about and, 

06:28 
you know, it's already manifesting here and all these comments. So I'm really, I'm really touched and moved to be, to be seeing these comments. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, everybody, for, for joining this gathering. 

06:42 
I always think that Sangha, like everything else is temporary, you know, that it's transient, it's a theme rule. It's what Sangha is not this fixed thing. Sangha, by the way, is one of the, is a Sanskrit term meaning community, you know, and in the context of Buddhism, it means a community of practice. 

07:07 
I gather a fellowship, a gathering of people who are committed to, for some period of time, doing this practice in its various forms, and joined by the fact that they are practicing, that's the, that's the sort of glue of a Sangha of practicing together. 

07:30 
But every, every Sangha is, is, I mean, it can be understood a ton of ways and ultimately, you know, the, the Zen view would be that the whole world is one Sangha, you know, including rocks and pebbles and bits of broken clay. 

07:46 
Even they are part of the Sangha, you know, it's not strictly limited to what we think of as sentient creatures, just everything is the Sangha. But nevertheless, This course, these four Sundays when we're gathering, is a sangha and every sangha is not just a community of practitioners. 

08:14 
It's a journey. It's the journey that happens when this particular gathering is taking place. In other words, it's a journey over these next couple hours we're sharing right now. It's a journey over this next month, over these four weeks that we're sharing together, exploring these practices. 

08:36 
And, you know, as those of you who are familiar with the way I teach, we already know and, you know, welcome, warm welcome to those of you who are not really, I'm a little bit spontaneous, you know, so I don't exactly know where we're going on this journey. 

08:52 
Yes, I've got my notes. I've got a nice little map. But I know from experience that the journey and the map are two different things. I like having a map and I like being free to go where the current, the tide, the wind, all seen I want me to go or want us to go. 

09:13 
And so I remember long ago hearing when I was early on in my days as a teacher, somebody saying that they really liked their teacher for many reasons. One of which was that that teacher never had a prepared talk that they read out. 

09:38 
And instead they let the talk emerge. And what they said was that they felt that when it's done that way, in some way, everybody in the room is in a way participating in the emergence of that particular talk. 

10:02 
And that might sound a bit woo woo, but I actually believe it and I've done it my whole, all my years as a teacher. And I still feel it even in these Zoom meetings where you think, well, as Sarah was just pointing out, we're scattered all around the world. 

10:20 
How can there possibly be some sense of a single room that we're in from which Henry's saying he thinks the talk might emerge? I don't know, but I believe it and I feel it and I think it does happen that way. 

10:34 
I just think that fundamentally, as we all know, that there's some level of our experience where there just aren't barriers. There just isn't separateness. There's this great phrase in Zen, Ji Ji Mu Gei, Ji Ji Mu Gei, which Alan Watts was a big fan of. 

10:55 
He, he, he... repeats it several times in his writings quite often. And it means in Japanese, again I'm going to say, ji, ji, mu, ge. And it means thing, thing, no barrier. Oh, what the hell does that mean? 

11:13 
It means between one thing and another thing, whatever manner of thing it is, there is no barrier. Or actually, at a workshop I was recently at in Boston that we offered, somebody in the gathering actually said, how about thing, thing, no gap. 

11:41 
I thought, that's terrific. So, yeah, Bali, Abigabenny, Santa Fe, Tucson, wherever, all over, and I'm sorry that I know there's a ton more places, but actually what if Barley, Santa Fe, Abigabenny, no gap, no gap, you know, and we're actually all here as kind of individual particular expressions of something that's ubiquitous, that is everywhere, you know, if that's the case then it's not so fanciful to talk about feeling this gathering as a single gathering, 

12:41 
as a single room. Okay, so down to business. We're going to be following our standard format seems to kind of work, which is that in a little bit shortly I'll end this kind of intro and we'll go into a sit which I'll guide. 

13:08 
Then we'll have a little break, then we'll reconvene, and I'll offer some kind of talk or teaching or sharing around our topic of how do we be with, how do we not fight, but also not be overwhelmed by difficult emotions. 

13:30 
What might they have to teach us actually? So we're going to, so we'll be exploring that and then we'll go into some Q&A, and then we'll all actually in a, you know, intangible way with staying connected all the way to next Sunday and all the way to the third Sunday and the fourth Sunday of this course. 

13:56 
as a Sangha on its particular journey. Okay, so the guesthouse. I'm going to start by reading this famous poem by Rumi that I imagine a good number of you might know already, but it's, it's all ever fresh. 

14:13 
This being human is a guesthouse. Every morning a new arrival, a joy, a depression, a meanness, some momentary awareness comes as an unexpected visitor. Welcome and entertain them all. Even if there are a crowd of sorrows who violently sweep your house empty of its furniture, still treat each guest honorably. 

14:49 
He may be clearing you out for some new delight. the dark thought the shame the malice meet them at the door laughing and invite them in be grateful for whoever comes because each because each has been sent as a guide from beyond so that is in a way the heart of it be grateful for whoever comes because each has been sent as a guide from beyond now what a crazy switcheroo that is you know we we sort of think we know what we should be feeling we shouldn't be feeling shame we shouldn't be feeling malice for god's sake not malice you know well what if it is a guide from beyond even that so that that's really the the journey that's the map of the journey in my mind which has got various stages is is to is to get there but how could the things that the feelings the emotions the mind states that are most manifestly negative difficult challenging even they can they can they be welcomed as a guide from beyond okay now we're going into our sit but actually i'm gonna i'm gonna read a little passage as our entryway this is from a psychologist who is also a deep practitioner jeremy saffron and it's the preface it's the book called um psychoanalysis and Buddhism. 

16:58 
It's a little story. My Tibetan teacher Karma Tinli Rinpoche, the fourth incarnation of the 16th century lama Karma Tinli, once asked me in his broken, heavily accented English, how does Western psychology treat nervousness? 

17:19 
So here's this enlightened reincarnation over generations and centuries of a particular enlightened being, is asking how does Western psychology treat nervousness? Why do you ask? I responded. Well, he replied, I've always been a nervous person. 

17:40 
Even when I was a little boy I was nervous and I still am, especially when I have to talk to large groups of people or to people I don't know, I get nervous. As was often the case with the questions. 

17:54 
that Karma Tinli asked me, I found myself drawing a complete blank. Part of it was the difficulty of trying to find the words to explain something to somebody whose grasp of English was limited, but there was another more important factor. 

18:09 
On the face of it, this was a simple question. But Karma Tinli was a highly respected lama, now in his sixties, who had spent years mastering the most sophisticated Tibetan Buddhist meditation techniques. 

18:26 
Those who knew Karma Tinli considered him to be an enlightened being. In the West, psychotherapists are increasingly turning to Buddhist meditation as a valuable treatment for a variety of problems, including anxiety. 

18:44 
Who was I to tell him how to deal with anxiety? And how was it possible that Karma Tinli, with all of his experience meditating, could still be troubled by such everyday concerns? How could an enlightened person be socially anxious? 

19:03 
Was he really enlightened? What does and for a moment my mind stopped. I felt a sense of warmth coming from Karma Tinli, and I felt warmly towards him. I felt young, soft, open, and uncertain about everything I knew. 

19:39 
Okay. So let's come into a comfortable seated position. And it's fine if it's a reclining position, it's fine if it's a supine position. So, you know, do a, I would, you know, you might, you might be okay with this, with the screen in front of it, or you might prefer to turn away from the screen. 

20:18 
It doesn't matter, whatever's best for you. You can, some will have their eyes open with the gaze lowered, some will close the eyes, whatever you feel suits you best. Just a a moment to get reacquainted with the sense of your body, being present to the experience of the body right now. 

21:03 
Thank you. If your back is supported, really lean back into the support. Trust the support beneath you. If you're sitting with a free spine, maybe rock or sway a little bit, or move the upper body in little circles, just finding your way to balance, to an easy balance where the crown of the head, the little disc at the top of the head, is hovering over the weight in the seat, or you could picture the cranium, 

22:13 
the dome of the top of the skull, like a parachute that's sort of resting up there in an updraft of subtle energy that flows up the spine, up the spinal column. And that parachute of the cranium hovers there. 

22:46 
But we, however we're established in the posture, We really do some relaxation through the body, some letting go all through the body. We can start with our old friend the jaw, letting the jaw sink and slide forward and down. 

23:15 
Obviously it won't go far, but it can be far enough, just let it be far enough that there's a release, there's a softening, almost some kind of opening. Sometimes there can be a little soft cascade of release that the jaw releases, so does the throat and the chest and the belly, as a kind of... 

23:52 
sympathetic spread of release, shoulders and arms go slack. Yeah, maybe whole front of the body, soft, softening, released. Thank you. Can you let your hips release? Can you let them sort of loosen, go slack? 

24:37 
Thank you. Again, checking the arms are loose, and let the legs also be loose. All four limbs, totally slack, and let the tongue join them, almost like a fifth limb. Thank you. And again, if you're upright, you can let all this loosening happen and you just need to be balanced and feel free to, you know, adjust any way you need. 

25:37 
Thank you. Letting go. Letting go. Thank you. So now I invite you to be aware of the visual field, just be aware of the sense of sight. So you might have your eyes closed and you'll just be getting some impressions of light and dark, maybe a little bit of colour, maybe behind the eyelids, or you might have your eyes open, let the gaze be soft, and if your eyes are open, see if you can allow the field of vision to be something like a mosaic. 

26:52 
of colors and shapes, of lighter and darker areas. You don't need to be making any effort to interpret. Just let it be almost like a collage or a painting, really. It's made up of light and dark and color and shape. 

27:17 
You sort of don't have to do anything about it. You don't have to be telling yourself, oh, that's a table, that's a computer, a book. You don't have to do any of that. Just experience it as shapes, colors, light, dark. 

27:40 
And as you're doing that, whether your eyes are open or whether they're closed, is there a way you can sense a kind of ease in seeing, just a non-striving and no effort quality in seeing? Thank you. Just for a moment you might pick up a label, seeing, and just repeat it to yourself in your mind every few seconds, just for a minute or two. 

28:37 
Seeing. Just a little encouragement to keep bringing the attention back to seeing. But with no effort required in reference to seeing. seeing Thank you. Maybe we're starting to taste a little bit more calm, or steadiness, or we might have plenty of thoughts bubbling up. 

30:31 
It's perfectly natural, if that's the case, just the best you can. When you notice you've been lost in thought, just say to yourself, thinking, thinking, so you recognize that's what's been going on, and you congratulate yourself on recognizing that. 

30:57 
That's really the heart of the practice in meditation, is again and recognizing we've been off, and being happy that we for a moment have come back. Thank you. Let's just slightly adjust our angle of attention and bring it to hearing, kind of open up the shutters as it were in the house, in the guest house, open up the shutters on the side windows, and I start listening to the field of sound all around us. 

32:04 
And in the same way as we did with seeing, we're not listening in order to... identify and know the sources of sounds, just letting the sounds themselves appear just as they are, with their own timbre, pitch, volume, quality, duration or brevity. 

32:37 
And if you're in a very quiet place, just listen to the soft sassirus, or hum, or whistle, or hiss, or roar, whatever you do detect. Hearing. Hearing. You might pick up that little label and voice it silently in your mind every so often. 

33:09 
Hearing. resting awareness in the soundscape. Thank you. Is there a way you can start to taste a certain kind of restfulness, even a kind of quiet in awareness itself? Or we could say, can you get a little inkling, or can you detect a sort of deep quiet that's like the background to all sounds? 

35:21 
Thank you. Don't strive to find that, it might just not really show itself, or it might get a little flicker now and then. Listening into a quiet, that's almost as if it's behind all sounds, or all sounds arise from a kind of background of quiet. 

37:08 
Let's see if we can stay connected or stay aware of something like a soft background to the soundscape. Not to worry if that's not very clear, that doesn't matter. Just being all the ways we want to just be with our experience as it is. 

37:41 
Instead of giving it the space to be as it is. Thank you. And, if we have a little sense of this soft background or context to the experience of hearing, great, then no worries if not, but we're now going to again slightly tweak the angle of view and just come back to sensing the body, but sensing it as a whole. 

38:22 
as a single field, as maybe a cloud-like field of micro-sensations, and there's no right or wrong way to do this. Whatever you're sensing is fine. A little bit of a hand or of an arm or a foot or a belly or seat or whatever it is, is all good. 

38:55 
And just seeing if there's a way we can let the body really be soft, as if it's something like the whole energy field of the body becomes a kind of softness, like the sort of like this the inside of a pillow, really soft. 

39:32 
Thank you. So, see if we can detect some kind of softness in the arms, in the legs, in the hands, in the feet, in the torso, the back of the torso, the flanks, the sides of the torso, in the torso, shoulders, neck, throat, back of the head, face, temples, it's a gentle softness. 

40:37 
Thank you. A body like a soft snow field, almost, a powdery snow field, a cloud maybe. Thank you. And we're just going to check, is there any sense that we need to get to the next moment. So we're resting with this soft field. 

41:35 
Is there, nevertheless, just a little hint somewhere, perhaps a few little grains of a sense, that somehow we need to get to the next moment? Thank you. And if there is, can we let that sense of needing to sort of move forward, can we let that sense be part of this? 

42:22 
moment. We're not trying to banish it. There's nothing wrong with it. We're not saying you shouldn't be here. We're instead saying, ah look, you're part of this moment too. Let it be part of the softness. 

42:56 
Let it be included in the softness. And if there's nothing like that, just notice what it's like for no subtle pressure to move ahead. What's it like for that to be absent, if it is absent? Thank you. 

44:01 
So just going over that again, we're resting with the body really soft, if possible, seeing if the body can be like a field of softness, cloud-like, down-like. And within that feel of softness, does there happen to be any trace of a sense of needing to somehow get to the next moment, leaning forward to the next thing? 

44:48 
You might have none of that and taste what its absence is like, the absence of any need to press ahead, or you might detect something like that, a few little grains of it sprinkled somewhere, perhaps in the middle of the body somewhere. 

45:15 
And we welcome it if we do find it. Can you let it be welcomed by and part of the field of softness? Thank you. It's really part of this moment, actually. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. What does it take to really welcome some sense of needing to get ahead, to press ahead? 

46:22 
What does it take to really just let it be part of this soft fabric of the soft awareness of the body? Thank you. And be patient, it may take a little while to really find a way to welcome it, to really throw open that sort of front door of the guest house, really it's already in the guest house, actually, really, if it is present, because how do we... 

47:23 
And I've offered a warm home, right here. Thank you. How do we offer it refuge? It might have been a bit of a lonely wanderer, you know, traipsing through the valleys, not feeling welcomed anywhere. Can we be the ones to give it shelter, refuge? 

49:22 
If we were to welcome it, what would we need to change? What would need to shift in order to wholeheartedly welcome it? Thank you. Do our hearts have it in them to do that? Is there some way our hearts know? 

50:31 
We always have to start from here. Thank you. We don't start by skipping over something. Thank you. What if the first lesson is always the biggest one, is always the major one, is always the important one? 

51:20 
. the lesson of now. Thank you. Whatever now's lesson may be. Thank you. noticing what in us is willing to learn, and what in us is not so willing. And we, ironically, we learn the most from what it is in us that doesn't want to learn. 

52:20 
Thank you. What if that refusal, that resistance, if it's there, is actually the great lesson? Thank you. The very thing we thought we had to get rid of might be the true seed, the true bud, waiting to be allowed to open, to germinate. 

53:25 
Thank you. Just kneading a bit of... sunshine and water, sunshine and rain, of our, allowing our welcome, our attention, our awareness, our patience. Thank you. The very thing we thought was the problem That we thought we were supposed to learn how to get rid of But it really was a kind of secret treasure all along. 

54:41 
Thank you. A jewel. Thank you. You know, our mind might have thought it had it all figured out, but you go this way, then that way, then over there. But the practice, the spiritual path, isn't like that. 

55:43 
The pathless path isn't like that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, well, basically we'll be gently winding down this meditation and reconvening at seven minutes past the hour. So those of you who want to keep sitting, you've got a bit of time to do that. 

57:15 
Those of you who want to get a cup of tea, likewise, there's time for that. And well, thank you very much, everybody, for joining in this sit. And yeah, we'll see you in nine minutes, seven minutes past the hour. 

57:32 
Thank you. Thank you. Welcome everybody, time to regather ourselves. around the glowing screen. Yeah, once again, just saying thanks to you all for coming along for the ride in that in and on that sit, and to whatever extent you did, and I hope you found it helpful. 

01:02:22 
You know, I've got this feeling that to address this question, you know, the matter of this course, difficult, difficult. the negative emotions, how to sort of be with them, what to do about them. So in a way I feel we're kind of dealing with almost the heart of the human problem, really, sort of how can we cope with our existential situation? 

01:02:58 
You know, because the extent to which we cope with it and respond to it wisely sort of determines sort of how much we're able to appreciate it, really. You know, is it just going to be a torment for us? 

01:03:19 
And if it is, what's the point? And how can it not be a torment when the circumstances of this human life are really difficult? You know, there's really good things, but there are really difficult things. 

01:03:35 
the number one thing perhaps being that we're all going to die and everybody we love, everybody we don't love is going to die, you know. And I know this is the first time in human history, perhaps when there's been people who aren't so sure about that, you know, Google and Facebook or whatever it is that the big projects are happening and you can find out in cyber world on the online there's various leaders in the field of immortality, 

01:04:11 
you know, but assuming for the moment that we don't have to take that too seriously quite yet, you know, we're still faced with the inevitability of loss, you know, and then in the Buddhist teaching really from 2400 years ago still kind of holds the Buddha had this image that four mountains are rolling towards us and they're going to crush us. 

01:04:44 
I know it's a little bit of a strange image, but we're being one mountain is old age, another one is the sickness and infirmities that come with old age, another mountain is death and they add a fourth one which is a fourth one being that we're going to be born again because they were reincarnationist into the same problem with the other three mountains inevitably coming to destroy us and everybody we love and everything we love and in a modern contemporary equivalent is that the sun is going to expand one day, 

01:05:27 
become a red giant, engulf this world and burn it up, you know, and Everything is here, everything that's here is not going to be here one day, you know, and so there's that. But on top of all of that, there's the more immediate problem, the way we're built, the way we're built creates suffering. 

01:06:00 
And I'm going to just read a little bit from my friend Rick Hansen's book, Hard Wiring Happiness, which gives a little kind of summary of so digestible, easy to understand summary of human central nervous system. 

01:06:23 
Basically, your brain developed in three stages that are loosely associated with the reptile, mammal, and primate-slash-human phases of evolution. The three layers of your brain were built from the bottom up, like the three floors of a house. 

01:06:44 
Your brain stem emerges from the top of your spinal cord. It manages fundamental survival. The subcortex rests atop the brain stem and spreads across the middle of your head. It's the center of emotion, motivation, and bonding. 

01:07:06 
Then the cortex, the third level, is the outer shell of your brain. And it enables abstract reasoning, reflecting about the past and future, key social abilities, such as empathy, language, and cooperative planning, because there are three parts of the brain. 

01:07:28 
Meanwhile, you've also got the autonomic nervous system, which was evolving at the same time as these three floor stories of the brain, floors of the brain, first floor, second floor, third floor, also the autonomic nervous system. 

01:07:49 
And that is a central part of that is the vagus nerve. And the vagus nerve has different branches. It's got the parasympathetic wing, the parasympathetic branch, which is calming and inhibiting, calms us down. 

01:08:10 
It has another branch, the sympathetic branch, which is energizing and exciting. It promotes the pursuit of opportunities, as well as fighting or fleeing in response to threats. And then there's another branch of the vagus nerve, which is about social engagement. 

01:08:34 
engagement. It reaches down into the heart and other organs and up into the larynx to modulate your tone of voice and into the head to guide your facial expressions. So these are all branches of the vagus nerve that's an essential part of the autonomic and central nervous system. 

01:08:54 
So as these three parts of the brain evolve, they actually match three core needs that we have. Safety, satisfaction and connection. Safety, that's the reptile brain. Satisfaction, the mammalian brain. 

01:09:22 
Connection, primate brain. Okay, no. You know, and then Rick Hansen says It helps me to think of think of my own mind as containing a kind of lizard and a mouse and a monkey related to these three systems Now so what's what what what's what's what then what's the problem? 

01:09:51 
Well, basically Those three systems each has a kind of Calm state happy state when it's got what it's what it's wanting what he calls a green zone and A red zone when it hasn't got what it wants Your brain is the master regulator of your body in its responsive or green mode It tells your body to conserve energy and refuel and repair Our ancestors evolved this setting of the brain to prevent manage end and recover from Depleting and damaging bursts of stressful activity The responsive type experiences when your brain is in this green zone It prepares your mind and body to meet future challenges in a responsive way And the responsive mode evolved to be pleasurable In order to motivate our ancestors to seek it. 

01:11:00 
It feels good Because it is good When your mind's in the green zone your neural networks are no longer in a state of deepest deficit or disturbance He goes into some detail the hypothalamus is less active, etc this central controller Of thirst hunger lust and other drives Quiets down and so does your sense of lacking something pressure of demand In your brain as a whole there's less and less basis for aversion, 

01:11:37 
grasping, resisting, and clinging, in a word, for craving, broadly defined. Okay, do you follow that? So when those three areas, capacities, or levels of the brain are satisfied, that means there's safety, there's satisfaction, and there's connection, so those three are happy, then the whole brain has less need for aversion, grasping, resisting, clinging, which in the Buddhist world summarizes the word craving. 

01:12:24 
Okay, less need for that, but um when um we're not in green zone when we're in red zone the reactive mode it's a different story because then um we are all those three levels uh in their danger zone um these two ways um are in which the brain operates responsive way and the reactive way green zone red zone red zone is you know unsafe danger you know um resisting grasping needing more depleted you know and coveting and non-connected separated you know the reactive side of it which is governed by the same um autonomic nervous system that goes into you know can go into this calm state can also go into this excited state up up up regulated state um to fight to flee and also to just you know positively be seeking but but the problem is you know um living well let let me know i'll just i'll read a bit more these two ways in which the brain operates responsive and reactive green and red are the foundation of human nature we have no choice about the vital needs that the brain serves avoiding homes see seeking rewards, 

01:14:34 
and attaching to others, nor about its capacity to be in either mode green or red. Our only choice is which mode we're in. Living under the shadow of danger and pain, hunger and loss, social aggression and humiliation, primates and early humans evolved a brain that is prone to crave and suffer in order to survive. 

01:15:02 
When conditions were harsh, most individuals died young, and bands feared and fought each other. The short-term benefits of the reactive mode, the short-term benefits of the reactive mode, then outweighed its long-term costs. 

01:15:20 
Its long-term cost, by the way, is that it's very depleting, and it doesn't feel good. And the way we were evolved was to... briefly get into that reactive mode and then come back to the responsive mode, so briefly flaring into red zone when needed and then back into green zone to rest and restore, to really rest and restore. 

01:15:49 
But these days when conditions are better people want a long and healthy life and billions of us need to live cooperatively together and the costs of the reactive mode greatly outweigh its benefits. In effect, one of the brain's major design features for passing on genes is now a design flaw, a bug in the 21st century because we get stuck in the reactive mode. 

01:16:20 
You know, there's things that go on in our lives all the time here that we're not, so let me just, unfortunately, that much of modern life is in contradiction with, is in conflict with our ancient design. 

01:16:44 
While most people are no longer exposed to the intense pressures of predation, starvation and lethal conflict, we do commonly face ongoing mild to moderate stressors such as doing multiple things at once, processing dense incoming streams of information and stimulation, racing from here to there, working long hours, rapidly shifting gears with little time for responsive recovery between them. 

01:17:15 
In the wild, in the wild, back in the olden days, regular exercise helped clear stress-based cortisol out of the body, but our sedentary lifestyle allows cortisol to keep circulating. which keeps reactivity in a vicious circle. 

01:17:34 
Modern economics require consumerism. Let me read that again. Modern economics require consumerism, so they're continually encouraged to chase more rewards. Meanwhile, the news is full of pains and perils you can't do much about. 

01:17:51 
All this puts the brain on high alert. Its ancient reptile, mammal, primate, stone age circuits keep flashing red. Something is wrong. Watch out. And because of our unique human ability to sustain states of mind unrelated to our immediate environment, internalized psychological factors, such as a sense of inadequacy about everything, about getting everything done in time, can keep you feeling stressed long after a challenge has passed. 

01:18:28 
As a result, While the reactive mode is designed to be a short-lived departure from the home base of healthy equilibrium, for many people it's become the new normal, a kind of chronic inner homelessness. 

01:18:45 
You may not feel awful, you may just carry around a background sense of being pressed, hassled, tense, prickly, drained, inadequate, uneasy, or glum, but it's bad for your well-being, health and relationships. 

01:19:03 
Okay, so that's a picture of the human situation that many of us are in. By the way, I don't really personally think that it's just the modern age that has produced this. My assumption is that back in 2400 years ago, there was a reason people wanted to do this kind of practice. 

01:19:33 
There was a reason that the Buddha came up with his diagnosis that people suffer a lot, and they suffer because of their craving. By the way, we'll get into this a little bit more deeply as we go, but the meaning of craving is, we sort of think it would mean just really wanting stuff, wanting experiences and things. 

01:20:09 
Craving, that's how we usually interpret that word. But I think in the Buddhist context, it's a little bit more kind of generic. It can mean that somehow this moment isn't sufficient. It's not a place that we're allowed to be at home in. 

01:20:31 
because things are lacking, because there's things already calling on us, because it's not quite good enough, you know, and so there's, we could say the other term that's often used is resisting, and actually the craving and the resisting are really rather closely linked, and in in certain ways they might almost, in the end, come down to the same thing, and so that's, in a way, that's a sort of, that's a look at the problem, 

01:21:08 
because given all the above, obviously we're going to have, commonly have difficult emotions come up, you know, we'll have fear, we'll have anxiety, we'll have inevitable griefs and sorrows, and we'll have irritations, frustrations, and anger, we might get into aggressive states of mind, hostile states of mind as well. 

01:21:43 
It's very easy for us humans on that level of our connectivity. We're really good at bonding and collaborating, but we're also really good at separating ourselves. We're really good at separating a perceived group that we're part of from a group that we're not part of. 

01:22:09 
We've got wiring that can be really nice and really collaborative and really cooperative and caring and compassionate and all that really good stuff. But the same wiring or very closely related wiring, the same chemical bar that's in the brain can actually trigger aggression. 

01:22:30 
The bonding chemical, the oxytocin, is the very same chemical that fires up an angry mother bear when she perceives a threat to her cubs. It's the same chemical that can get us humans dehumanizing other groups. 

01:22:50 
It's a bit of a soup, a cocktail of volatility that we're heir to. I'm saying all this really for two reasons. One is to set out the problem a little bit to get us clear on our human wiring, our human emotional makeup, our human cognitive slash emotional makeup. 

01:23:17 
There is a problem. I'm just having a quick look at the notes, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. That book, by the way, is hardwiring, oh sorry, it's in there, thank you, Hardwiring Happiness by Rick Hassett, yeah. 

01:23:41 
So A, point A, yes, there is a big thing here, because in a sense our negative emotions, whatever the upstream causes they have may be, which is what we've just been looking at a bit, they are the expression, they are the sort of cold face of suffering, is feeling really bad, you know. 

01:24:15 
Now, so A, yes, there exists, but the other point here is like, in a certain sense I want to say, don't feel bad about it, I mean. don't put another layer on top that's like, why am I feeling this way? 

01:24:35 
Why can't I be happier? Many of us might do that, might even have shame around our negative emotions. Just laying it out there as Rick Hansen just did in that passage as I read, at least it's telling us you're not actually sort of at fault or wrong for having the problem, the human problem of negative difficult emotions and learning how to live with them. 

01:25:07 
It's like, yeah, actually it is part of being human. And so can we not add an additional layer of like, why am I feeling this way? Well, there's two million years of Homo erectus of 1800, 1,800,000 years of Homo erectus or whatever exactly it is and 300,000 years of Homo sapiens to have provided it, to develop the brain you have and the central nervous system you have and the limbic system you have and the emotions that you have. 

01:25:51 
And it's okay, but having established that, what do we do? Well, of course there are different approaches to this and there's a whole world of philosophy and practice that says we can change it, we can actually change it, we can do some work and rewire how our emotions show up. 

01:26:30 
Great, great, we can work on that, and we will be in this course. There's also another view which is slightly different, which is this roomy view, which is, what if we're not trying to change the emotions themselves, instead we're trying to change our relationship with them. 

01:27:04 
See what I mean, there's a little bit of a difference there. One side is we can work on them, we can do stuff and dial them down. The other side, actually what happens if we don't try to change them, we try to have a different relationship with them. 

01:27:30 
The dark thought, the shame, the malice, even the crowd of sorrows who violently sweep your house empty of furniture. Meet them at the door laughing, invite them in, because each has been sent as a guide from beyond. 

01:27:51 
That's a really different approach. So what we're going to be doing in our weeks together is basically looking at different approaches. And I'm going to just give you a little quick snapshot of what that's going to be like. 

01:28:12 
We're going to look at the early Buddhist approach in the Theravada world, particularly the Eightfold Path. The Eightfold Path is the original sort of prescription for how to deal with human suffering from the first discourse and the second teaching of the Buddha. 

01:28:34 
The first discourse was, don't go to either extreme of consumerism or the consumptionism of trying to get everything you want, all the luxuries and pleasures that you want. Don't go that way, but also don't go the opposite way of maximum ascetic self-renunciation. 

01:29:02 
Instead there's a middle way. That was the very first teaching of the Buddha. And the very second teaching was that there are four great truths. There is suffering. Suffering is caused by craving. That craving can come to an end. 

01:29:22 
And thirdly, fourthly rather, here's the path to bringing an end to craving, which will end. bring an end to suffering. Yeah, there's a four noble truths so called. So in that path, the prescription of how to end craving, which will end suffering, there's eight folds, there's eight dimensions to it, eight aspects to it, and the sixth one is called right effort, and we'll be diving into what that looks like. 

01:29:55 
So we're going to be getting a bit of a Theravada perspective, early Buddhist perspective. We're also going to be getting a look at how attitudes to the Path of Practice changed in Buddhism itself, and even three, four hundred years later with the evolution of what's known as Mahayana Buddhism, which was a slightly different perspective from the early Theravadaism, a different view came of how to deal with kind of everything, 

01:30:34 
including feelings and emotions. It wasn't so much about how to manage them, it was more about seeing what they actually are. And then there's a Zen view, which again is different. What happens if we actually let them, it's more like they're roomy, if we totally let them win. 

01:31:02 
What then? Rather than trying to manage them. I also want to look a little bit at some therapeutic approaches and in a psychotherapeutic psychology and how it's framed the problem. And so that's what will be sort of, so in other words, over the course of these weeks we're going to be coming at the issue of feeling bad, of not feeling good, in a number of different ways. 

01:31:40 
I want you to sort of have some different perspectives on it, as well as some different methods and approaches to it. And so is there anything else I need to want to tell you at this point? I think we're kind of getting to... 

01:32:08 
Yeah, there's one other point I want to make actually. There's, in the world of contemporary spirituality, there's conflicting sort of views on this actually. There's a famous term, I mean famous if you're in the spiritual world, which is spiritual bypassing. 

01:32:33 
Some of you will have heard that, I'm sure. You know, there was this psychologist who was John Wellwood, who was a pretty devoted Zen practitioner back in the 70s and 80s, and who started noticing that, you know, people who were apparently sort of doing well, as it were, in practice, making progress in their spiritual practice, might not, in certain ways, actually seem to be becoming particularly, 

01:33:02 
you know, more kind and helpful and wise human beings. And they could, you know, they could be practicing very hard and sort of ignoring their partners and families back at home, or, you know, letting their work life fall apart or something. 

01:33:22 
And yet they were more and more into their practice. So he came up with this term, spiritual bypassing, and it was really basically saying, don't use, don't throw yourself into spiritual practice to the exclusion of other important activities in life. 

01:33:43 
And don't imagine that if you've got some kind of, for example, relationship issue, that just the more you sit, you'll sort it out. No, it may well be that it needs attention of his own, of another kind. 

01:34:03 
So being open to a sort of multidimensional approach, that having not just sort of going all in on practice, this spiritual thing is gonna solve everything. And I think there was a kind of slightly magical, rosy-tinted view of practice back in the mid 20th century that it could sort of solve everything, that if you were really involved in your practice, there was virtually nothing that you wouldn't learn to do really well. 

01:34:35 
But obviously, it's very unrealistic that. There's domain-specific things, and sort of the solution would be like, do some marriage counseling if you need, as well as your practice. Don't be so in on practice that you're actually bulldozer over other sides of life that need their own attention. 

01:35:04 
And so, some people would say that if you're learning to manage your emotions through your practice, it could be that you're actually bypassing something that your emotions are trying to tell you. you, right? 

01:35:28 
See what I mean? That if you get so good at certain kinds of practice where, you know, you can get skillful, you know, and so you can really, you can dial down your anxiety so it's not there, you can, so you can, do you see what I mean? 

01:35:46 
Like, sorry, I'm getting, I'm not, I've actually had COVID all week, and I'm just surfacing from that. And my brain is not, as so often, it's not as agile and crystal clear as I'd ideally like, but I'm working the best I can with it. 

01:36:03 
That you, there would be an argument. Don't get so adept at your practice that you can sort of, you can sort of meditate your way out of a difficult emotion. You'd really want to do that, how great that might feel. 

01:36:22 
But what if that emotion was really there to tell you something? Yeah, that makes sense. So we need to have some kind of wisdom and discernment here, because you could, there's certain practices, for example, Janna states, if you can switch on the Janna state, you're going to feel good, you know, but there might be all kinds of stuff you're neglecting in your life. 

01:36:45 
But you can really bliss out every time you sit, because you know how to switch them on. And yet, actually, is that a good thing? Couldn't it be that those emotions are actually messengers, you know, they're trying to tell you something, and just don't use meditation, you know, I suppose, like an intoxicant. 

01:37:09 
Because in certain circumstances, it can be. Okay, hope I got that clear. In other words, there's nuances here, that we're not really talking about just managing emotions, so we don't have to feel bad ones. 

01:37:28 
Somehow, that wouldn't be a complete picture. Rather, we are going to see whether over these weeks together, we can be fostering a wise, that wise innkeeper, who she knows how to welcome everybody there, and how to, how to let them all sort of have the experience they need to have. 

01:38:00 
But she's not overwhelmed, but she's also not turning anybody away. Something like that. Okay, so that's a little map. Sorry, a little bit of a, perhaps it's not very clear, but I got it, I got it here next to me, my map. 

01:38:17 
So we're all good. So that's what we're going to be doing in the course of these weeks. Now, Sarah, let's go to questions. All right. Great. So for those of you who have, I've been in touch with some of you on the chat, but some of you may like to read the question you submitted. 

01:38:37 
And if you would like to do so, please just use the raise hand function so I can find you and send you your question to read aloud. But I will kick us off here with some of the questions folks sent in. 

01:38:53 
The first question here from one of our Sangha members. My son passed away from cancer in November 2024 at the age of 34 within just three months. My question is, how do I cope in everyday life with the constant memories that keep surfacing? 

01:39:15 
Memories of when he was a baby, a child, a teenager, painful memories of his suffering, of his last breath. The past is gone. but he was here and right now the memories are all I have left of him. Thank you for your response. 

01:39:32 
Oh, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry for your loss. I'm so sorry for your loss. Yeah, it's one of the hardest things actually that we humans can go through is to be a parent who loses that child. It's heartbreaking. 

01:39:57 
And yeah, I'm very sorry for you and for your dear child. My own approach to grievous losses continues to be to allow my heart to be open. So if you're feeling grief, feel grief. If you want to cherish, of course you want to cherish every memory you can, please do so. 

01:40:34 
Grieving is a long process. There are some people who say that really we should be almost, as it were, grieving all the time. But if we think of child mortality rates, any epoch of human history until what, probably the last 80 years since the discovery of antibiotics, it was a very common experience actually that parents would lose a child, sometimes several children. 

01:41:19 
And meanwhile, you know, there's nearby or under the same roof. great-grandparent has just died. There's a grandparent dying. The condition that we have at the moment where we live with death as a somehow remote thing is really unusual in human history. 

01:41:43 
And that includes deaths in all generations, including the younger generations. And in those circumstances, grief must have been a constant companion. And for us, in the modern world, it's possible that we don't experience it quite that way. 

01:42:14 
So when there's a grievous loss and the grief comes, we again, we might think, well, I shouldn't feel this way. How can I live and feel this? I believe that it's part of our process of developing in wisdom to be able to live with grief, so that we don't close it off, and we don't close our hearts, we have an open heart, which is difficult when it's grieving, but actually that makes our experience all the richer, 

01:42:43 
it makes us wiser, it makes us deeper, it makes us more compassionate. So please, don't in any way feel that you need to not mourn and grieve but a tragic sad loss, and I hope this course actually might help you with it, because we are, I believe, we are sort of creatures that are meant to be open to grief. 

01:43:23 
A lot of things come if we're open to grief. You know, wisdom and compassion and actually paradoxically deeper joy come from our openness to grief, so thank you very much for sharing that. I think there's beautiful passages in The Prophet, by the way, by Khalil Gibran, on grief and sorrow that you might find comforting. 

01:43:59 
Okay, next up, Justin is going to read his question aloud. There we go. Thanks so much. I was just wondering, in terms of the Zen view, are healthy, wise, appropriate boundaries possible? relative sense, even if such separations are meaningless in the more absolute sense? 

01:44:30 
Great question. Yeah, absolutely. I think it's a really important point to get clear. It may be true that on a certain level, everything is one thing. Everything is empty. There's no gaps anywhere. That may be true. 

01:44:53 
But at the same time, we must live sort of in the world as it appears. Yamada Cohen Roshi used to say, this world may all be a dream, but we must still work to make it a happy dream. In other words, just because we may have seen somehow that all this is a dream, all this life is a dream, it's still going on. 

01:45:23 
and we still need to approach it as it appears on its own terms. And yes, that would include having healthy boundaries. Yeah, it's sort of like in the absolute reality of things, that level of experience doesn't need us to take down boundaries. 

01:45:56 
It knows that we're never really there, so to speak. It's not as if we have to sort of, do you see what I mean? It's like, it's not like you have to, sometimes people sort of think, well, how can I make myself feel one with this table? 

01:46:12 
Well, you can't. It's not like that. You're not trying to force the way that this experience of things arises and appears into something else. It's already true that it's both internally empty, and one. 

01:46:41 
Both are true at the same time. So there's no need to try to make sort of one accord with the other. Not at all. Okay, I hope that's clear. So on the level of all this experience we're having, we take it as it appears. 

01:46:56 
And on that level of human relationships, boundaries are critical. Thanks so much. Yeah. And I didn't know that they were for a long time, because I had really bad boundaries. You know, if you don't think boundaries are critical, it probably means you haven't yet got really good boundaries. 

01:47:14 
Yeah, I know that film. Thanks. Okay. All right. Next up, Sean will read. question hello Henry question is there a point in a person's practice when questions can fall away and are and when difficult emotions and difficult thoughts are so welcomed into the mix of my of your life of my life that these all these are phenomena that are all part of the boundless sort of heart mind or original love and is that possible yeah yeah it absolutely is I would I mean it's that sounding almost like you you might have had a taste of that Sean I mean it's absolutely possible that's that would be a taste of, 

01:48:19 
you know, of seeing the original nature of things or of seeing Buddha nature, seeing where suddenly all these things are welcome and they're just entirely non-problematic. They're just ceased to be a problem and they're welcome and they're beautiful. 

01:48:40 
And actually, I mean, that's one of the territories that we'll be going to this course, I hope, is getting a taste of like how it could be that something so difficult as a really nasty emotion like anxiety that there is a way of experiencing it, whereas it's just a thousand percent welcome. 

01:48:58 
It's just not a problem, but it hasn't actually changed, you know, you could still say, well, I know this must be, this has the signatures of anxiety, but it's without any of the problematic side of it. 

01:49:12 
That the very thing that we can be resisting because it's uncomfortable and difficult can actually be a spur or a little prick or a little puncturing of the sense of separateness. Suddenly when that's gone, oh my gosh, it can, it can all be so problem free. 

01:49:33 
Hmm. Okay. So thank you very much. Thank you, Sean. Great. Okay. Thank you. Next question. I will read on behalf of one of our group. I've had a hard time feeling my body. I've been disconnected for so long due to an eating disorder that's gone. 

01:49:55 
But now the next step is to be more connected to this body of mine. How do I start without forcing it? Yeah, great. Great question. And well, congratulations. I'm really happy to hear that, you know, you've got a new relationship with that disorder. 

01:50:12 
That's fantastic. And I mean, I would have thought. do, I don't know what kind of, you know, movement practices and someone that you might do, whether you do any dancing or yoga or qigong or tai chi or rolling around on the floor or just the things that, you know, get you to enjoy your body more, you know, hiking, walking, movement, you know, I would have thought might be the way to go. 

01:50:45 
And then on the meditative side, I think it's just patience, you know, gradually you'll just, I think you will just start finding, oh yeah, that's what it's like for my bum to be sitting on the chair, that's what it's like, oh that's what it's like for the backs of my thighs to be, to be touching the seat, that's what it's like for my feet to be feeling the floor. 

01:51:12 
And it's sort of enough, there's no, you'll realise that it's not a high bar. It's sort of, there's not some special way of doing it that you've got to cultivate. No, it's just, oh, it's here. Yeah, just letting your body be present, you know, in a really easy way. 

01:51:36 
Yeah. Thank you. Okay, great. Do we have time for one more? Two more? What do you think of Henry? Let's try and do two quick ones, quick fire ones. Okay, great. So first up, at the end of guided meditations, you instruct us to gradually come back, move the body, notice sounds, etc. 

01:52:05 
I find I don't need this gradual transition. And I'm just out of meditation straight away. Does this mean I'm not immersing myself enough in the meditation that I need to let go more? Do you have any tips for being more immersed in the practice? 

01:52:21 
No, I think that's just fine. What I would say is, like, at that time of coming out of the meditation, see if you can stay aware as you're coming out. Just really be aware of the first movements you do, remaining aware, right? 

01:52:35 
So then you're going to stand up, be aware as you stand up. You're going to turn to whatever activity comes next. See if you can stay aware as you do so. That would be my main pointer. So it sounds that it's all good. 

01:52:49 
That doesn't sound like you're doing anything wrong. That's it. Thanks. Excellent. Next up, since my 10 day retreat in Dharmasala, I'm wondering if it's all right to follow two methods of meditation at the same time. 

01:53:05 
I've enjoyed your approach, but was also asked to not mix methods or approaches. Yeah, I think during a retreat, I would always encourage somebody to sort of do what you're told to do at that retreat. 

01:53:18 
And throw yourself on the mercy of that particular approach when you're in it when you're when you're back in your normal life It's sort of up to you I mean if you've given a if you've been given a prescription by them that you really like and you feel cool to follow Well, then maybe that's the right thing to do if you on the other hand if you're still feeling drawn to follow the way I would say just Carry on with the way, 

01:53:44 
but be able to excerpt yourself from it When you go into the particular, you know set up and conditions and practices of a particular retreat It can work just fine Okay, thank you so much Henry any final final closing words before I close this out I just want to say a big thank you to you and to Jeremy and to everybody And very much looking forward to our next gathering and this onward journey Thank you. 

01:54:19 
Sarah, over to you. All right, great. Thank you. And for those who had questions come up, Jerome, John, Leslie, please make sure you send your questions in via the survey that Abby will send you so that we can collect those. 

01:54:37 
Also, there were several really juicy questions we didn't get to, and we still have those. Have them next week as well in hand. So you won't be missed. Thank you all so much for being here today. Just a couple quick announcements. 

01:54:54 
Henry has some live in-person retreats this summer. First one in Big Bear, a five-day retreat in person with Henry in Big Bear, California, and then a weekend retreat in Berkeley, California in July. 

01:55:14 
So June retreat, July retreat coming up, and we'll see you all next week. Abby will be here as your gracious entity. It was such a pleasure to be with you all. Just big, big love to everyone for showing up so fully. 

01:55:31 
Thank you. 
