
00:05 
Hello, hello, everyone. Welcome to the third session of the guesthouse with Henry Schuchman. Welcome to those of you who are joining us here live on the Zoom. It's so lovely to see you all here. And also welcome to those of you who are joining us on the recordings. 

00:29 
It's also really lovely to know that our community extends well beyond this time here together. And as you know, my name is Abby. I use she and they pronouns. I will be the Zoom host and tech support for today's session. 

00:53 
So if you have any questions, anything comes up for your time here today, please send me a direct message in the chat, and I'll do my best to help. I'm also once again calling in from the unceded land of the Tewa people known as Oga Poggay Owingay colonized as Santa Fe, New Mexico. 

01:18 
And as we've been doing a little map activity today, we're going to do a little something different and then we'll do our little check in question via chat. It's been really lovely to have you all stamp in where you're calling in from and have this visual representation of our global Sangha. 

01:43 
And also that wasn't inclusive of everyone who's actually part of this community since there are many people who join us via recording. So what I did was I went in and created a map that plugged in pins for everyone who's registered for this course. 

02:05 
So there's 450 or so of you all joining us. So I'm going to briefly, I just wanted to show this map as a visual representation of the beautiful community we have from around the world. So just sharing this briefly, you can see pins from all over. 

02:33 
And it was even fun as I made this. You can see that pin that looks like it's the middle of the ocean. But there's actually an island out there. And it was fun to also get to know new places through our community that's joining these calls. 

02:51 
So I'll stop sharing this now. And then. I see some of you have already started saying hello in the chat and in addition to maybe saying where you're calling in from We also Have just surpassed a couple days ago the change of seasons. 

03:10 
So i'm curious to hear What are you welcoming in for this next? season And maybe that's an intention you have something you want to bring in more of over the next few months or maybe it's Something that you're working on welcoming through this course in this topic of the guest house So for me It's now summer here. 

03:41 
It we definitely feel it here in santa fe it is very warm and I my intention and what i'm welcoming in is cooling down And that's literally finding places that have air conditioning And that's metaphorically of finding ways in which I can create more spaciousness To welcome in and just be in my experience rather than Running from one thing to the next And so i'll read a few out from the chat I see carolyn is welcoming and more joy spontaneity less fear and prayers for peace and Working on allowing the presence of the overwhelming heat. 

04:30 
I definitely resonate with that one laura Welcoming in whatever arises Welcoming in all that is in every moment in durango Lots of rain where deborah is welcoming in connection and calm Welcoming in rain through the dry season More joy with summer and peace in the world. 

05:00 
Peace within peace, within and without. Unconditional acceptance. Someone else also wants to cool down in Santa Fe. Thanks for sharing. Welcoming in resistance to change. Yeah. Thank you so much for sharing all that you're welcoming in. 

05:24 
Please keep the chats coming to say hi and let your voice in, in a way, into this community. It's really lovely to hear from all of you and again have you here. And I will then pass it over to Henry for our guided meditation. 

05:49 
Okay. Thank you so much, Abby. Thank you everybody for being here and including the folks who are watching this as a recording after the event. It's really great to be with you all. It's great to see that map, Abby, that full map. 

06:12 
Thank you so much for making that. It seems like there's pretty much basically every continent except Antarctica, I think, which is just great. The whole point, really, of these practices, these ancient practices that we're still doing is that we're plumbing the deeper realities of our very human-ness. 

06:35 
So it doesn't matter where we are on the globe. I remember actually once my first then teacher, when I was appointed as a teacher, I was sort of like, well, there are different options about where I might start teaching. 

06:51 
And he said it doesn't matter at all where the dharma is appearing. Because it's one dharma appearing everywhere, one dharma appearing in all its infinite multiplicity of manifestations, but it's still one dharma. 

07:09 
And that is basically the source of all our blessedness, is that one dharma that always is present, no matter the great variety of ways it shows up, including all that we find beautiful and all that we find terrible. 

07:34 
And the real sort of challenge for us is that if we accept that as an idea, then we might or might not, but the point is that it's actually a reality. It's not an idea. It's a reality. And to taste that for ourselves, great and vastly helpful and but to taste the implications of it is also great and vastly helpful. 

08:05 
That's why we don't have an overriding emphasis that you must have some clear awakening to this experience and if it's not clear enough it's no good and if you don't have it it's no good. Rubbish you know is the fact that we can get taste of it in all kinds of ways that's what this program is really dedicated to. 

08:23 
But the challenge is really having got some alignment with it that does not mean that we don't acknowledge all the opposition, all the discrimination, all the oppression, all the cruelty in our world, all the ways that we're falling short of living up to the reality that all this really is. 

08:50 
if you see what I mean. In other words, it's not enough just to recognize that. We must make, or we must do our part, we want to, you know, and this is part of the point of practice, is to get not just clearer, but also more able to bring the state of this world closer to alignment with its actual reality in our own little corner that is ours to work in and to do what we can to serve and help. 

09:27 
Is that clear? I hope that's clear. So it's not just, you know, it's because often people say, well, things like, you know, well, I've realized it's all one and, you know, and it's all somehow okay, because it is on that level. 

09:43 
And then others say, you know, the world is such a, it's a burning world. How can we just sit, sit on our tukus and do nothing, you know, and the hope of these two things are not contradictory, you know, it's like to discover the reality that everything is one is not to be absolved of any responsibility for the way this world as we know it is appearing. 

10:11 
Yamada Cohen Roshi used to say, this world may all be in some ways a dream, but we must still work to make it a happy dream. So just wanting to make this point clear. Okay. Of course, this guest house title, we're just, we're moving in now to the sit we're going to do, but I just want to point out, we've been working with the famous little roomie poem, The Guest House, as the theme, how do I welcome, 

10:49 
how do I play, host and welcome all that arises. Now again, that does not mean we don't work to make our guests happier, so to speak, and we don't work to make the whole guest house more harmonious. If there's some unruly folks, we're careful. 

11:11 
The point isn't just to indiscriminately do nothing that tries to the world. However, we've been working on ourselves being the host of the guest house, which is great, and we're never going to leave that behind. 

11:28 
But there's another dimension to this guest house, which is really what if the guest house is actually this very moment now, and it's more like we are in the guest house. so that instead of it only being our hospitality, actually maybe there's a larger hospitality. 

12:00 
Can we start to sense that? That we are guests in a larger IN, a larger hospitality. We're going to throw one more little note in here. In Japan, in Zen, and this comes from China, of course, they talk about two sides to practice, two sides to power and help in practice. 

12:44 
One is Jiriki, which means self-power, what we can do, developing our mindfulness, coming back to the cushion or the seat day by day, every day, working on being more aware more often, more capacious in our awareness, more often. 

13:05 
Jiriki, self-power, but there's also what they call Tariki, other power. That our life is, we do what we can to sort of manage and grow in good ways in our lives, but our life actually isn't created by us. 

13:26 
We're given it, the experience of this moment just right now. All that we see here feel, think, you know, emote, actually all that capacity to do that is not generated by us. It is given, and it's the same with practice. 

13:43 
We do our side of the practice that we can do, but at the same time as we do ours we're actually sort of in invoking other powers that help us and this doesn't mean supernatural stuff I mean it can if you if you if you go that way, that's fine, but it really means you know, none of this is made by me And recognizing that more and more Okay, let us Let us get some get comfortable and please lie down if you want to lie down Please recline comfortably on a couch if that's what you'd like don't know No kind of forcing yourself to sit in some Position that won't stay comfortable You know, 

14:33 
I was just talking with somebody recently who did their first retreat and the first half of it all it was about was managing the pain in their legs because they were sitting on on the floor on a cushion and then suddenly they thought well Maybe I'll just try that chair, you know, and they got in a chair, and all of a sudden it was no longer about managing pain. 

15:00 
They were actually able to really focus and explore the nature of their own consciousness, and it became a very helpful retreat for them. So, be comfortable. Thank you. And that also includes, you know, you might start out comfortable and then you get uncomfortable at some point. 

15:33 
Feel free to gently change your posture, you know, as you need to in the course of the sit. And if you do it slowly and mindfully, you won't disturb your sitting, you can just become part of your meditation. 

16:00 
Thank you. So let's lower the gaze or close the eyes. Thank you. I start by tuning into the body. If your upper body is free, you might try a little gentle rocking from side to side. And all of us can start to tune into the sitting bones, the twin bones. 

16:50 
deep in the buttocks, feel them connecting with the seat that's supporting you. And while you're feeling those sitting bones, let the whole upper body soften, shoulders soft, arms and hands soft. Thank you. 

17:25 
face soft, jaw loose, back of the neck, loose, maybe a little bit long, as if the back of the head rises just a hair by itself. Check again, the jaw is loose. Rib cage, warm and soft. Back sides and front, warm, belly warm. 

18:18 
You might sense just a bit more pressure in the seat as we soften and loosen the upper body. Thank you. Legs are loose. Feet are loose. Let fingers and hands be limp. Thank you. And just notice that the body can become very restful, and the mindful awareness can be very awake. 

19:24 
So we might sense the body as kind of a bit like a space that's still and restful. Thank you. very still calm Thank you. And what is sensing it, what is feeling it and is aware of it, is a very awake sort of alert awareness. 

20:07 
Thank you. It's an awareness that's learning. It can just be with what is, and it already knows how to be with what is. Thank you. Sometimes this seems to be already somewhat appreciative. You can kind of just rest with the sensation space of the body, just kind of rest with it, but the resting doesn't make it less aware. 

21:18 
Thank you. It can be like a kind of blessed pool of awareness. Thank you. There's an old Tibetan Buddhist poem, Queen of the Lake of Awareness, Queen of the Lake of Awareness, the Lake of Awareness, right here. 

22:18 
Thank you. Can we taste, can we sense the, the limpid water of awareness? Thank you. Thank you. Notice that the same awareness is sensing the soundscape. Thank you. Sounds arising in the same awareness. 

23:28 
Thank you. Just listen for a while. Thank you. Let the soundscape reveal itself to you. As we're in the process of settling in, it's very natural and normal to have thoughts bubble up, reflections on recent events and times in our lives, whatever else it may be. 

25:29 
Just let them, let them be, let them come as they come. The best we can, we become aware of them if they're present and acknowledge them, thank them for appearing, and come back to listening. Thank you. 

26:05 
to a really hearing into the soundscape. Now, we might start to see what energies are present in the body, just doing a light scan around the chest and diaphragm and belly, just getting a sense of any flavours of energy that are present. 

27:43 
Thank you. And staying with the same awareness, the same awareness, is what can notice them. Thank you. And that awareness, again, is restful and alert, attentive, awake, but it's a kind of in order to be aware. 

28:43 
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Can you find that there may be some subtle energy, perhaps tightness or density or heat, something just a little bit uncomfortable may present, but you can stay aware while sensing that. 

30:43 
You can even stay aware of awareness while also sensing subtle energies of unease, or possibly ease of course as well, that's fine too. But this awareness has that capacity to be really open to whatever's arising in our experience and yet remaining aware. 

31:26 
Thank you. Almost as if it remains aware of itself. Thank you. It's intrinsically calm, restful. Thank you. and can host and allow and welcome whatever arises. Thank you. And if you feel that something's a little too much or too intense, back off and just come back to sensing your feet on the floor, a softness in your limbs, in your jaw and face and listening. 

32:51 
Thank you. Thank you. So we can, we can also, if we're curious, we can also investigate whether it's possible that this awareness isn't actually ours. Somehow it, it doesn't need to be a property of me, perhaps it really isn't a property of me. 

34:36 
Is there a way you can just unhook, just sort of free awareness from a sense of me? Thank you. And, if that's not available or accessible right now, that's just 100% fine, but maybe you can sense whatever the hook is, or sense the hooking. 

35:36 
Some little... little node of contraction or tightness or tension may be very subtle, perhaps somewhere in the diaphragm area, solar plexus maybe, or somewhere in the torso. Thank you. And if you do sense something like that, see if you can just investigate it a little bit. 

36:16 
What actually is it? Is it anything more than just a little tightness? Thank you. Can you let it be? 100% welcome. There's absolutely nothing wrong with it. It's free to arise just as it does. Thank you. 

36:57 
And awareness soften around it. Thank you. Notice that awareness really has no problem with it, it's fully welcomed, allowed. Thank you. And still, we might just get curious. What actually is it? What is it to sense a little bit of tightness in the torso? 

38:09 
Maybe very small, very subtle. But what actually is it? Thank you. What if it's a good thing? What if it's a messenger from beyond, in Rumi's phrase? What if we truly welcomed it? Thank you. And again, if at any point it feels a bit much, just... 

39:36 
do come back to simply sensing your feet and your seat, your feet, your seat, your hands, the soundscape. And again, if there is a little hook you're sensing, what happens if it just softens a bit, becomes a bit rubbery, maybe a bit warmer, maybe even a little misty or foggy or like it might just be dissolving a little bit. 

41:31 
Thank you. or as if the presence of awareness around it is somehow changing it a bit. Thank you. Sharon Salzberg talks about the warm stream of awareness melting a piece of ice. Thank you. Then the last few minutes just really rest as awareness. 

42:54 
Can we let go, be awareness? Can we let go, be awareness? Restful, awake, vast. Thank you. No beginning, no end, boundless. Thank you. Silence. So, these do, as always, by all means, cruise on if that feels most fruitful and compassionate, and otherwise we can, you know, gently be bringing ourselves out of the meditation. 

45:23 
Thank you. Thank you, everybody. And we'll have our little customary break for tea water etc and reconvene in 10 minutes at um or nine minutes now 10 55 mountain time abby over to you thank you Thank you. 

46:07 
As Henry said, if you're still in your meditation, please stay in that space, but for those of you who are maybe transitioning to a different kind of awareness, I'm about to, I'm going questions you're most interested in having answered during today's Q&A. 

46:39 
So fully optional to participate should open in a new window once I launch it. Thank you. You You You You You You You You You You Okay, okay Hi everybody Abby I just want to check is Sound All good? Okay, thanks. 

51:39 
Okay, let me just sort of reconvene a bit. Yeah, okay, so our first two sessions we were in this course guest house. We've been basically working on sort of what we can do by way of essentially, you know, helping ourselves and also of course others thereby with our difficult emotions. 

52:09 
And sort of broadly speaking, there's the approach of trying to change them, ameliorate them, diminish them, and to cultivate more positive emotion states. We've had a look at some of that, both from the Buddhist tradition, and also I wanted to talk a little bit more about sort of therapeutic approaches, because that's of course a huge part of what psychotherapy is about really, it's being able to feel better and live more fully and helpfully and wholeheartedly as a result. 

52:51 
But we also had a look at this where we're not really trying to deliberately manipulate or in any way change them with learning to allow. And allowing actually can be a paradoxically a way by which we learn to be more patiently with our emotions, and thereby actually they can by themselves become more wholesome. 

53:26 
This is one of the Buddhist approaches to this area. And probably, I would guess that for most of us, the optimum is some amount of both, some work in both areas. But generally, there's a wisdom in Buddhism that you can't change anything unless you first accept it. 

53:51 
We have to begin by acknowledging the way things really are. That doesn't mean we're sort of passively submitting to them, but we're making the statement, this is how things are. And then from there, it's a more fruitful place to begin trying to change things for the better. 

54:10 
Now, in my mind, all of that falls under the umbrella of what just now I was talking about in the SIT, jīriṇī, what we ourselves can do. And that's all consonant with viewing this sort of image of a metaphor of ourselves being the guesthouse, which is what is prevalent mostly in Rumi's poem, you know, be the guesthouse and be a hospitable host. 

54:43 
Notice, know that you are a guesthouse. This being human is a guesthouse, every morning a new arrival, a joy, a depression, a meanness, some momentary awareness comes as an unexpected visitor. Welcome and entertain them all, even if they're a crowd of sorrows who violently sweep your house empty of his furniture, still treat each guest honourably. 

55:09 
They may be clearing you out for some new delight. It's reminiscent actually of, some of you will know, well you'll all probably know, The Prophet by Khalil Gibran. It's got a marvellous sort of chapter on joy and sorrow, that our sorrows are what make our joys possible, and it's only our capacity for joy that brings us our sorrows. 

55:35 
They're absolutely part of a single field, joy and sorrow. It's a very beautiful insight, you know, that actually, I mean of course it's put very poetically there, but that actually our very sorrows, and I suppose I would add the extent to which we open up to them, they create the space for joy. 

56:05 
I find that very moving and beautiful. Rumi goes on, the dark thought, the shame, the malice, meet them at the door laughing and invite them in, be grateful, invite them in, be grateful for whoever comes because each has been sent as a guide from beyond. 

56:24 
Oh my gosh, so now isn't that beautiful? But here's the thing is that I want to be inviting us to consider a shift now, as I was saying earlier, from I am the host to actually something larger of which perhaps I'm part is the host. 

56:47 
We could conceptually think about that, like in awakening we glimpse a larger reality. Now for some it's always a larger awareness, that awareness is not caught in this skin bag, let alone in this little cup of skull bone, awareness is actually larger, ampler than all of that. 

57:12 
As a matter of experience we can taste, we can glimpse, we can sense, detect awareness as something much larger, and there are traditions especially I think in Advaita, Advaita Vedanta, and in Tibetan Buddhist Zogchen practice where we're really encouraged to let go of the sense that awareness is limited to either this little cranium or this little body. 

57:43 
Actually, it's larger as a matter of experience and I think it's beautiful practice and it shows us that, yeah, we're in a larger guest house. And again, that is, I think, part of it, or at least it sort of rhymes with the Zen idea that practice is on one hand about what we can do and on the other hand about opening up to what we're already receiving in our very existence. 

58:21 
And once again, those of you who've heard, have been sort of very kindly been sort of open to my teaching over the last few years will know I really like this metaphor in early Chinese Buddhism of practice being a cart track with two cart, with two wheel, two tracks for either wheel. 

58:45 
One of those wheels, one of those wheel tracks is exactly what we can do in developing our practice, in developing our mindfulness. And the other wheel track, not at all, it's reality, it's awakening, it's realization, it's what we can in no way possibly improve, in no way possibly develop because it's already totally complete. 

59:13 
And actually, it doesn't do time, it doesn't do space, there's nowhere to go, there's no before and after, there's just this. Now, so on the one hand, there's the path We could say, if we apply that metaphor to the territory of difficult emotion, on the one hand, absolutely, there is the track on which we can do some stuff. 

59:39 
We can, you know, we could, if our practice is sort of enough and it's all we want to do, so be it, that's fine. And we learn to gently shine the light of awareness on the knots and tightnesses and contractions and tensions and dis-eases in our system and gradually, gradually, just by having the light of awareness shone on them, they will tend to unwrap, unravel, untie themselves, to melt, to dissolve. 

01:00:14 
And we also notice, just with the light of awareness, what is actually going on. And one of the, we were talking about this, I think, in the first session, one of the things that very commonly, for many of us will be going on is that leaning ahead, that pressing into the next moment and not being content with this moment, not knowing actually how to just be here, but already we're sort of pushing ahead to what's next, 

01:00:41 
what's to come. And actually I just want to read a little bit of Sharon Salzberg who talks beautifully about this. In our usual mind state, we're continually activating the process that in Buddhist terminology is known as bhava, which literally means becoming. 

01:01:08 
In this state of becoming, we're subtly leaning forward into the future, trying to have security, a feeling we can hold onto, trying to keep things from changing. We're continually out of balance in this state, as we even try to feel the next breath while the present one is still happening. 

01:01:30 
When Buddhist teachers talk about letting go, they're talking about dropping the burden of becoming, of leaning into the next thing and returning our awareness to the natural center of our being, returning to a state of natural peace. 

01:01:49 
You know, natural balance, not leaning, balanced, here, here. So that's all on Wheel Track One. But now what happens when we move to Wheel Track Two in the realm of negative, difficult, troubling emotion? 

01:02:15 
Well, it's really different because Wheel Track Two does not have a problem with them. Just doesn't have a problem with anything. anything. Wheel track 2 is the realisation that there's only now. There's really only now. 

01:02:37 
So everything is the manifestation of now. Everything is now. And in now there's no time, so there's no thought of improvement. In now there's no space or distance, so there's nowhere to go. There's no path to follow to get somewhere better. 

01:03:04 
That implies both space and time. It's just this. And the glory of realising this is basically actually in this world of awakening, which is really what we're talking about, awakening, realisation, even enlightenment in that. 

01:03:25 
in that, in that, there's no healing to be done, which is so paradoxical, you know. But as I said earlier, we mustn't get caught in the idea that, you know, we sort of get there and just get sort of stuck there. 

01:03:45 
Zen calls that zen sickness to be stuck in the world of awakening. Instead, we're encouraged to, sure, realize that by all means, if it comes, you know. But then that is the source of our wish to help in the world, in the world as it is. 

01:04:07 
So it's not a static sort of checking out of things. I'm just going to check out, be in the world of oneness, the world of emptiness, be that, not be in it, be that, and in that, actually, truly, all is well. 

01:04:22 
It's like, you know, Sister Julian of Norwich said in the 13th or 14th century, all is well, all manner of thing is well, all manner of thing shall be well. You know, she's found it. She's found this thing where, in spite of the Black Death, in spite of the terrible religious wars, in spite of the brutal crusaders going off and slashing, quote unquote, infidels to pieces and all the wars and all the troubles and the death and the famine and the plague, 

01:04:52 
in spite of all that, all is well, all shall be well, all manner of thing shall be well, is well. She has very strange grammar, actually, in that sentence, never quite understood it. But anyway, the point being, she's found the reality of awakening where all is already perfect. 

01:05:18 
But that doesn't mean that there isn't also this troubled, beautiful world that is, you know, at the mercy of hooligans and vandals and brutal dictators and all the rest of it, as well as of Black Death Plague, as well as of famine and earthquake and natural disasters, but most of all, of course, of human cupidity and rapacity and cruelty and depression, you know, we humans and our blindness in what we're doing to the planet. 

01:05:55 
Now it's a willful blindness because we've been we've known for 40, 50 years, you know, that what our infinite fantasy about infinite growth, capitalist infinite growth, has produced in this world, you know, we know we know what's going on, mountains and mountains of plastic bottles and, you know, and and poisoning the atmosphere and raising the global temperature. 

01:06:23 
sea levels rising, we know what we're doing, and we still can't stop, you know, so it's willful now. We're gonna deny it, we're gonna pretend it's not happening. You know, that's all part of our world, and we're not talking about awakening, enlightenment, realization, as a way of putting our head in a sand, checking out. 

01:06:46 
Oh, I'm just, it's too difficult, I'm just gonna check out in the land of empty oneness, infinite empty oneness. And as the Buddhist tradition, early Buddhism is just a little different here because it does present, it's got the reincarnationist worldview, which basically does see the world as a veil of tears. 

01:07:15 
I mean, the philosophy in it, we can overstate this and I wanna be careful not to, but there is an implied philosophy in the reincarnationist worldview that what you wanna do is get off the cycle of rebirth, that really the goal is to not be born again. 

01:07:36 
It's obviously a really weird thing to say in contemporary practice when Buddhism has become so popular, you know, Buddhism and sort of derivative practices have become insanely popular in the modern secular world. 

01:07:50 
And mostly people skip over that side of early Buddhism. You know, a lot of the Buddhism that's popular, of course, is Vipassana, which is basically a Theravada practice, where the reincarnationist worldview is part and parcel of it, that, you know, the purpose of practice is to not have to be born again. 

01:08:11 
Well, that's a really weird thing to say in the West, where most people are trying to live forever. I mean, most people would wanna live, would want another life, they think, if they could have it, or they wanna extend their lifetimes. 

01:08:21 
You know, there's a Google. you know immortality project one of billions and billions of dollars being spent on how to live much longer you know and they didn't they didn't think like that they thought the purpose of practice is to not live again it's you know it's a really strange idea for us so we can just exert that because actually anyway Buddhism kind of let that go in the course well certainly in some forms like Zen doesn't touch reincarnation it doesn't speak of it it doesn't doesn't seem to say anything about it is you could you could totally do Zen and not for a moment think about another life really doesn't Zen doesn't want to even think about any other time I think it's enough work to work on this life and it's actually enough work to work on this moment to really receive the gift of this moment is a is is is all we need do let alone be worrying about some putative further lifetime you know so So let's just take that reincarnationist business out of the equation that this world is something to get out of, 

01:09:35 
and instead we're just looking at the point, sorry I'm just bringing us back to the point I was making, that the point of awakening is not from the Mahayana Buddhist point of view to leave the world. 

01:09:52 
No, the point is to be able to serve and help and tend the world in whatever way, however small it's sort of given to us to be able to do that, right? So I think I've made the point clearly that we're not checking out, right? 

01:10:14 
Okay, we're not checking out, instead we're actually just getting clearer on the way things really are, in order to be able to basically live better, live more helpfully, more fully, more kindly, more wisely, you know? 

01:10:34 
I mean I say this almost with a little hesitation because I'm so much working on this myself, I don't want to be coming across as somebody who thinks they've got this down, you know? I'm practicing always because I need to, you know? 

01:10:52 
I just know that, you know, sometimes we'll get glimpses that seem to make it a lot easier, that's true, but we can still backslide, you know? I wish I had a long phase of my practice when I felt I'd really, really clarified enough that I wasn't going to backslide, and it was sort of, it was sort of, actually it was, I think, I feel it was true for a while, but not forever, you know? 

01:11:19 
Then I had to ramp up my practice again, which I love. love, you know, we don't want to stop learning, we don't want to stop growing. I don't know anyway. Okay, now I don't want to get too far off track. 

01:11:34 
So, all of that was by way of saying, now that we're turning to this tariqi, to this wider view, to the possibility of this second wheel track, we're not really fully on it yet, we're just opening up to the possibility of it, that somehow all is well. 

01:11:52 
Like Sister Julian of Norwich said, somehow all is well. Don't let's fall into the trap of thinking that means we don't need still, we don't still have work to do. That's why I still really like the metaphor. 

01:12:05 
The car trap metaphor says, you don't only have one track, you have two. It's not like you get the track of realisation. You still have the other one. You don't leave it behind. Yes, I think we're good on that. 

01:12:20 
Yes, okay, so. Okay, so now I want to talk about a little Buddhist secret, you know, because generally this part of realization is considered a leap. There's no crossing the chasm in two steps. You just suddenly realize it's been here all along. 

01:12:44 
They call it the gateless gate in Zen. It's kind of a gate because you can realize it when you haven't. You can then realize it, that's kind of a gate, but it's no gate because it's been here all along. 

01:12:57 
Not only has it been has it been here all along, it has been what you are all along. Not something, it's not even something you discover out there. It's a revelation about what you have always been. That's why it's so powerful. 

01:13:17 
Okay, because it's not a realization. I make a it's a sudden revealing of what I have been all along. I and all my experience together, what they have been all along. That's that's its power. Okay. Now, Henry, Henry, where are you going with this? 

01:13:38 
Oh, yeah. So it's usually said that you therefore can't get to it. You just discover it. It just reveals itself. It's like, you know, you can't make the flower open suddenly, the flower doesn't know it's going to open. 

01:13:51 
It doesn't know what it's doing. It's just a bud doing being a bud. And then, oh my gosh, suddenly opens. And there's a petal, you know, it's sort of like that. It's not, it's not that you can walk to this, you can't get there because you already are it. 

01:14:07 
Okay. That's the traditional view. And it's true. But actually, there is a little secret ladder, they say in Buddhism, called the seven factors of awakening. That there is a way of almost almost getting to it. 

01:14:24 
And it goes like this, the seven, and we just rattle off these seven factors. Um, the first is mindfulness. So that's, that's what we're doing already. The second is, um, is giving, uh, getting curious about our practice, investigating curiosity. 

01:14:43 
We're doing that. Third one is energy that comes as we get more curious about the possibilities of what this life really is and practice as a means to investigate that. As we get curious about that, we get more energy, we get more enthusiasm, we get more drive for practice. 

01:15:04 
That's the third one. Hopefully we're getting some of that. Then we start to get delight. Now this is, uh, this is just, um, I mean, you know, I think, sorry, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. 

01:15:22 
I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. 

01:15:22 
and they're all, you can see how they all sort of fit together, but they're all slightly different. It's because what Buddhism is trying to explicate and share can be sliced and diced in 10,000 different ways, and they're all right, they're all correct, they're all true. 

01:15:40 
So it's just another angle on, it's like another prismatic angle on the prism, you know. So in this one, mindfulness, curiosity, energy for practice, for investigation, delight. Yeah, we'll start hitting these little pools of unexplained pleasure, deep pleasure in sitting. 

01:16:07 
It's a beautiful kind of pleasure, they call it nonworldly pleasure. It's not a pleasure that it's not a sort of outward sensory pleasure, it's not, you know, delicious tiramisu, you know, it's a really intrinsic pleasure in our own being. 

01:16:24 
That then leads to calm, quiet, a sort of clear, radiant peace that we can taste in practice. I mean, that's not the only flavor, calm, doesn't have to be radiant, just quiet, you know, it's a little like, you know, a stormy night. 

01:16:46 
There's another way you can think of it, a stormy night, and at dawn, he opened the door, the rain has stopped, there's still clouds, there's a kind of peaceful, soft gray daylight, some leaves dripping, gutters dripping, and you know, the world, the storm is over, peace, calm, it can be like that. 

01:17:13 
Lots of ways it can come on, it just comes on, you know, you know, sitting and sometimes outside of our sitting, that's the fifth factor. And then the sixth factor is Samadhi. I've been actually just recording a whole load of meditations on Samadhi in our app the way, so it's kind of in my mind at the moment. 

01:17:39 
But Samadhi is really a beautiful flow state in meditation, where our practice is not being done by us, it's effortless, it's easeful, it's thoroughly fulfilling, time may go rather quiet, sense of self may go rather quiet, peaceful state. 

01:18:04 
And it's beautiful, you know, because it's very refreshing and restorative and it's full of a quiet energy of its own. It's sort of the meditative version of an athlete being in the zone, etc., an artist being in the zone, a creative. 

01:18:22 
The creative zone, creative flow, and it comes up in all kinds of different activities in life as well. But that is only the sixth, the seventh. This is the thing I love, actually. This is what I really wanted to share with you. 

01:18:35 
The seventh one is equanimity. Equanimity. Well, what is equanimity? Well, in the Buddhist view, it's more or less something like unconditional allowing. There's no seeking after anything. There's no resisting or pushing away. 

01:19:00 
There's just a kind of large allowing. So isn't that beautiful? I mean, that's the guest house. This is another way of looking at how we don't get into the guest house. We find we are the guest house and really can be mind host. 

01:19:26 
Isn't that what they call it? You know, the innkeeper, mind host. It's a very friendly mind host. Very friendly, very, very welcoming. All welcoming host. Equanimity. Actually, I've had a busy time in our time off that we didn't have a session last week. 

01:19:52 
I was teaching a retreat in California with Spring Washam, who some of you will remember from the prior course we had. And also with a Kirtan chanter, Nina Rao, who's worked with Krishna Dast for decades, three and a half decades, is a marvelous chanter. 

01:20:14 
We had Kirtan chanting every evening for two hours, which was just, just wonderful. And then we had. spring, well spring and I were sort of doing the daytime, you know, leading sits, guiding sits and sort of sharing dharma and answering questions and stuff. 

01:20:33 
We also had Luke, who some of you all know, he's done some retreats with me before, who's Luke Wienson, he's a breathwork practitioner, a yoga teacher, Qigong teacher, so we were having some movement with Luke as well. 

01:20:55 
It was a lovely a lovely week, but in the course of it spring at one point was talking about equanimity and she actually really just talked about her grandmother. Her grandmother was, you know, was a completely open-hearted woman. 

01:21:14 
She worked as a housekeeper for middle-class white families. and she lived in California. And she had these, it sounded like, as Spring was saying, I don't want to misrepresent her family, but she was talking about how she had some rather wayward uncles who had lots of different partners and kids and all the partners, all the kids, their photos would go up on the wall and say, where is that? 

01:21:46 
And they were all welcome in the house and Spring said she was, it was as if she was always in the kitchen peeling vegetables. Like there was just a never ending supply of food for whoever came. You know, and a neighbor would come around with some terrible thing. 

01:22:02 
She'd drop everything and help the neighbor. And she was really good at meeting people in their sorrows and their troubles. And she didn't try to, she was very beautifully, sort of unconsciously skillful in her compassion. 

01:22:22 
And she talked Spring, actually Spring also told the story of her father and son and the five year old boy, or six or seven year old boy. You know, one morning they got up and the neighbor was crying outside on their stoop and the father was a little hesitant, didn't know whether to sort of, whether it would be sort of awkward or something to approach this neighbor and speak to him. 

01:22:53 
But the boy just went up and climbed into the neighbor's lap and just sat there. And after a while, the neighbor sort of stopped crying and sort of patted the boy's head and strokes him and they started chatting. 

01:23:12 
And the boy came back over and his dad said, well, what did you say? What did you do? And he said, I didn't do anything. I just helped him cry. I just helped him cry. And that was, Spring said, like her granny would just help people cry. 

01:23:36 
Not trying to fix, not trying to do anything. And this is an expression actually of equanimity. Comes alongside. It just knows how to be with. To be with. And of course there's a, for sure there's a compassionate side to it. 

01:24:00 
Just to be with. So, we're learning through the practice of allowing. We're learning to develop more equanimity. We're learning to actually have a more compassionate approach to ourselves and to others. 

01:24:32 
Thank you. So that's, I think that's pretty good in terms of this guest house. I think we're learning how to be better guest houses to life. And maybe in the process of doing that, this is why these are called factors of awakening, the conditions of heart and mind that may be more fertile for awakening. 

01:25:11 
Because all awakening is, is just the little realisation that this host, this process of allowing, this equanimity, this compassionate awareness, in realisation, it's simply the realisation that it seems like, as a practitioner, that's my responsibility. 

01:25:39 
I've been generating that, I've been developing my practice in that direction, so that it's grown in this way. And the realisation is just this subtle little tiny thing really, is just that I haven't been doing it. 

01:26:01 
After all, I haven't been doing it. It's been doing it by itself. And the sense that I was doing it is actually an illusion. That's what this little shift from sort of factor of awakening, awakening to awakening. 

01:26:24 
It's just all of that good stuff, great stuff. But actually, all along, I wasn't really doing it. Okay, that's enough for this week. So I'm hoping next week to go a little bit further into that, the wild and crazy side of things with a realisation. 

01:26:51 
Just talking about it, inviting a little bit more into our awareness. Okay, so I'll hit pause right here, and we'll go into Q&A time. So Abby, over to you. Thank you, Henry. So we're gonna do We'll do a couple questions as usual for our Q&A. 

01:27:20 
And then we're going to do a lightning round. And then we'll come back to doing it at a slower, more spacious pace. And there's a couple people. I'm going to say a couple of names. If you are here and you want to share your question out loud for these first two questions, please use the Raise Hand icon, which is at the bottom of your screen. 

01:27:46 
It either says Raise Hand or it's under the button that says React. Dana Wallach, you have a question. So if you're here, if you could raise your hand. And Zach. I didn't see Zach here, but maybe your name is something else. 

01:28:05 
So if you're here and want to ask your question live, please raise your hand. And Dana was here. But if you're not here, I can also ask your questions on behalf of you. So I'll start with Zach's question. 

01:28:27 
And Zach says that they have noticed when meditating that they can have feelings like being anxious without any noticeable trigger for the emotion. For example, someone walks into a room while they're meditating and they feel an emotional disturbance without first knowingly thinking that they wish they could have been left in peace. 

01:28:55 
So the emotion comes before the thought. And they're noticing it kind of makes sense that beliefs seem to kind of drive these behaviors and those beliefs are subconscious. So the question is, is there a way to surface these thoughts or thoughts? 

01:29:16 
to tackle these beliefs head on through meditation, or is it simply a case of being patient and waiting for them to arise whenever they do? Okay. Thank you. Great question. I mean, okay. A few little thoughts here. 

01:29:32 
One is that, I mean, really this might be another case for what we've just been talking about with allowing. Can I just allow this sense of distress, you know, wherever it's come from? Whatever's triggered it, that would be the sort of number one invitation of practice. 

01:29:52 
Now, there's another interesting question is how far, what's the relationship between thoughts and feelings? So some cognitive therapists are just all in on all thought, all feelings are generated by thought. 

01:30:06 
The thought may be extremely subliminal, preconscious, they call it. But it's probably there that there's some lightning assessment. Mm, this is. is difficult. And then, so you're asking, can it be tackled head on in meditation? 

01:30:23 
In meditation, I think it's, as I said, it's learning to allow, learning to allow, learning to allow. But in, in the therapeutic context, yeah, of course, there's therapies that do look at that. Most of the joy is a little bit out, I think these days, there's, I think nobody denies a great link between thoughts and feelings, but can it go both ways? 

01:30:45 
I think some people say yes. And I think in cognitive behavior therapy these days, they tend to think that, well, one way I've heard it described very well is that you've got behaviors, you've got thoughts or cognitions slash beliefs, and you got emotions, three things, and they can all influence, each can influence the others in any direction. 

01:31:10 
Behaviors can influence emotions, behaviors can influence thoughts, thoughts can influence behaviors, thoughts can influence emotions. Emotions, of course, can influence behaviors and thoughts. And it's just a question of where do you intervene? 

01:31:22 
What's most accessible? And sometimes it might be that unearthing beliefs is the best thing we could do. I did a whole phase of that. I can really only speak therapeutically from my own experience, basically almost entirely as a patient, as a client, a little bit as a practitioner with dream work. 

01:31:40 
But you know, I've done various kinds of therapy. The first that really got me helped was cognitive behavior therapy. Actually, it was called rational emotive behavior therapy. Then Albert Ellis's brilliant pioneering work on basically what became CBT. 

01:31:56 
And he, he was all in on unearth those secret philosophies that are causing so much trouble. I found it profoundly helpful in my when I was about 20, late 20s. It was really, really pivotly helpful for me. 

01:32:13 
But that doesn't mean it's right for everybody. There's lots of great therapy. different kinds, but if you're curious about that, you might look into CBT. Thank you. Dana, hi, I can see you. Nice to see you. 

01:32:28 
Hi, Henry. I'll read my question. During last Sunday's sit, you spoke of the atmosphere in an Eastern European inn. The description of the innkeeper and hosting the coming and going of guests resonated a lot with the guest house theme. 

01:32:45 
It added the dimension of us as individuals, not just hosting the guests, meaning our thoughts, feelings, behaviors, but equally as important as graciously letting them go, leaving the inn, leaving the self. 

01:32:59 
Can you expand on the significance of letting go or saying goodbye as we also serve as hosts? Oh gosh, that's a great, great, great, great, great point, Dana, because the whole point is, I mean, you've really put your finger on it. 

01:33:13 
The whole point really, is if we let them be, if we totally allow them, they do whatever they want to do. They can unbind, they can release, they can go, they can do whatever they want to do. But the one little tricky thing is, we're not letting them be because we hope they'll go. 

01:33:36 
That's the only thing to watch for. We're not doing it as a strategy. If you see what I mean, like, we're not just allowing them because we think that might make them go away. That's the one thing. It's truly wholehearted allowing, wholeheartedly hosting. 

01:33:55 
You're welcome here. But that kind of welcome means you're just as free to go. Yeah, they elicited the feeling more of like a revolving door, that there's a constant coming and going. Like guess at an end, it's just a flow. 

01:34:16 
Yes, that's also very true. Well, that's almost a deeper point because there's a practice in Buddhism of record, they call it arising and passing. It's recognizing that everything is arising, maybe enduring a little bit, abiding a little bit, and then passing away. 

01:34:36 
And that's what life actually is as a fabric. It's a process of arising and passing, things appearing, things disappearing. That's actually what we call life as an actual sort of substance of life. That's what it's made of is phenomena, arise and pass, appear and disappear. 

01:35:00 
So we did a whole session, you did arise, abide, fall away a few years ago. And that is this very concept. That's really beautiful. And to see that clearly, almost we have to actually have fully let go of trying to hold on to anything. 

01:35:20 
And usually when we really see that clearly, that arising and passing, we don't really have as much of a sense of self involved. It's a way that that freedom from self, the boundary between inside and outside, the boundary between me and my experience has dissolved. 

01:35:37 
So there's just experience and it's a flow, it's a flux, it's a borderless flow and flux, a boundaryless flow and flux. That's beautiful. Thank you for bringing that up. Thanks, Henry. Yeah, thanks so much. 

01:35:52 
Thank you, Dana. Thank you, Henry. Then we'll move into our lightning round for a few questions. So I'll put 45 seconds on the timer. So this first one for the lightning round. This person says they're still confused about how to meet difficult or negative thoughts. 

01:36:14 
They sometimes wonder if coming back to mindful awareness is just avoiding them or distracting themselves. And they feel like distraction, even if it's with a good thing like mindfulness, is an avoidance. 

01:36:27 
If instead they allow the feelings that go with the thoughts to be there, but notice just where they are in their body and don't focus on the heat of them, is that dissociating? If they allow them all in and make them welcome, they seem to overwhelm this person. 

01:36:44 
Aren't they better to wrestle them to the ground? That's another kind of innkeeper. That's a great, great question. There's a few different dimensions here. The first one I would say is that, look, there's times when, you know, being with difficult emotions is just too much. 

01:37:05 
And we're overwhelmed. Either we already are feeling overwhelmed or we start feeling overwhelmed. And at those times, I think it's more compassionate to, you might carry on sitting, but just don't fixate on trying to be with difficult emotion if it's getting to be too intense and too much and you're getting overwhelmed. 

01:37:27 
That would be the cardinal rule. What you do in a case like that, it could be that you do carry on sitting and just really feel physical body sensations. Perhaps the breath coming and going, oh my gosh, I want a little bit longer, Abby, because it's really important. 

01:37:41 
Sorry. Put it on again so I don't go over twice, if you would. So, okay, so you could sit and just stay sitting and just be with physical sensations, or you might listen to the soundscape, or you might just get up and go for a walk, or you might slump on the sofa and watch a TV show. 

01:38:04 
You know, you want to do something that really interrupts the overwhelmed cycle. Okay. That's just one thing. The next thing, in terms of practice, yet the point is to be, I'm sorry, I've forgotten. I know it was about, I forgot, I've lost it. 

01:38:24 
I lost it. I'm sorry. Can you repeat it, Abby? The first part? Yeah. So the person's asking, like, is allowing them all in just avoiding them or distracting themselves. Aren't they better to wrestle these difficult or negative thoughts to the ground? 

01:38:43 
Yes, sorry. Allowing them is not a tool distracting yourself. Allowing, the whole point of allowing is deciding the way I am now is my meditation. It's not like I've got some project for meditation that I'm trying to do. 

01:39:01 
Yeah, you may do if you're doing a particular sit that's guided in a certain direction. But if emotion is too strong for you to do that, you stop and then you just let the arising emotion be precisely what you're dealing with. 

01:39:18 
Do you see what I mean? That is the love. Honey, why don't you go through this door here? Excuse me. No, not right now. Sorry. We've got some unexpected visitors. All good. Excuse me. Okay. I'm going to that service. 

01:39:35 
Yeah. What you're experiencing is the meditation. Okay. So it's not avoiding and don't wrestle on the ground. Be with them. Okay. Thank you. The next question on the lightning round is my guests are serious health and financial conditions, which make it very difficult to settle down during meditation sits. 

01:40:02 
Could you please speak to this? Yes. Look, when we, I totally understand and I'm and sympathies to you. I'm sure many of us can relate to that from different times in our lives. I would say the point is when you're actually in meditation, we don't, if possible, we don't want to be dwelling on the issues and circumstances in our outer life, but with the consequences that we're feeling of them in our actual experience here and now. 

01:40:41 
So we're just, so don't be trying to resolve those outer problems. Just see if you can be bringing compassion and kindness to your own experience, a kind awareness that is allowing your own experience to be as it is here and now in your meditation state. 

01:41:06 
Thank you. So next question is, is there a place for manifestation in daily meditation practice? By this, this person means trying to attract something like financial security, a consistent creative state, et cetera. 

01:41:25 
Yeah, that's a great question. I mean, I have to say in the terms of the kind of practices that I've been trained in over over 35 plus years, not one of them was for that kind of thing. However, however, I believe that I have found that through daily sitting, I receive clearer sort of indications about what to do. 

01:41:55 
You know, what my Zen master, one of my Zen teachers says, he gets the email is how we put it, puts it like while doing Zazen, while doing meditation. he gets the email, like some little pointer about what I could try next may come. 

01:42:11 
And especially if we're wrestling with some decision, you know, when you sit, put the decision aside and be open to all possibilities and something will just come that has the, a ring of authenticity and integrity about it, I find. 

01:42:31 
Thank you. I think we can do two more lightning and then we'll return to the regular pace for what we have time for. Next question is what role do the types of insights that can occur during meditative and contemplative practice play in alleviating emotional distress? 

01:42:52 
Right, well, that's a great question. I mean, a huge role. I mean, there's so many thresholds in practice. There's just that little bit of mindfulness, that little mindfulness shift where we recognize that we are not our emotions. 

01:43:08 
There's, we're hosting them, but we are not them. That's a huge thing. And it gives us a, it breaks our identification with them and suddenly we're less oppressed by them. You know, and on and on it goes all the way to seeing clean through there being any self that's oppressed by those feelings in the first place. 

01:43:31 
And then actually, you know, as I was saying earlier, we tend to discover this reality where there are no afflictive emotions. So it has a lot, which is greatly helpful and reassuring and can reorient our lives in beautiful ways. 

01:43:49 
Thank you. One more lightning round. And then I think we'll be able to get in one or two regular. This question says, this person knows that impermanence is an important foundation of meditation practice, but every... 

01:44:06 
Every time a guided meditation mentions impermanence, they feel a great fear, and the thoughts that come up are around, I could lose my family at any moment, and catastrophic images arise in the mind. 

01:44:21 
This fear then stays and interferes with daily life. How can this person handle this or approach impermanence differently? Okay. Well, I would say, I mean, maybe it's not the time to be doing meditations on impermanence. 

01:44:34 
You know, give yourself that compassionate turn. There is a different way of understanding impermanence, actually, and it's much more like Dana brought up, and we were talking about earlier, where impermanence is in the nature of this very moment. 

01:44:53 
You could think of it that way, rather than impermanence meaning everybody's life comes to an end. You know, that's that's one dimension of it. All things rise and pass. I mean, and on another even on that level, it can be quite comforting. 

01:45:07 
Mountains are impermanent. The very globe of this planet is impermanent. You know, actually, isn't there can there not be a sort of lightning that none of us are sort of singled out as impermanent? Everything's impermanent, you know, and that can actually be a lightning of the burden. 

01:45:26 
Maybe I find it so. Mountains are impermanent. Rivers are impermanent. Oceans are impermanent. The sun is impermanent. Awesome. Thank you, Henry. Moving out of our lightning round, Jen, you could raise your hand. 

01:45:51 
You have your questions on deck. Hi, Jen. How's it going? Here's my question. How do we deal with people in community who have caused us direct harm? How do we share community with someone? We've had personal conflict and hurt when they aren't willing to talk things through and reconcile. 

01:46:13 
I'm curious about what the appropriate zen response is to that sort of experience. Yeah, that sounds very difficult. I'm sorry that you're you're going through something like that. You know, zen might I mean. 

01:46:29 
Zen would depends where you go to. But there's you know, that you might know that old story about the hackering, the old Zen master. He was accused of having an affair with a with a young woman. And and he hadn't at all. 

01:46:48 
But when they accused him of it, he just said, is that so? And then 10 months later, her baby was born and they brought it to him. So this is your baby. And he just said. Is that so? And he nurtured the baby, had brought in a wet nurse or whatever in the temple and just looked after it, helped it grow. 

01:47:10 
And at a certain point, the young woman confessed that actually she had been having a secret affair with another young man in the village. And the baby wasn't his after all, and they came and took it away. 

01:47:21 
And he'd already become attached to it. And he just said, is that so? So that's a really deep sort of enlightened approach of really being unattached and very open and just meeting each moment as it is, which maybe is a little bit of a reach for some of us, myself probably included. 

01:47:45 
But I think it sounds like there's a place for some skilled communication here, NVC, nonviolent communication skills or something. And it might be helpful to have a... you know, if it needs to be addressed, it might be helpful to have a facilitator of some kind. 

01:48:07 
I don't really know, but I can't really say that there's a sort of... Zen hasn't got some in his back pocket, some, here's a script for you, you know. It's a difficult situation and certainly to own that, acknowledge that and, you know, and let it be this way and, you know, we all have our blind spots. 

01:48:26 
We all have the things we're hung up on and maybe this person, you know, maybe they don't yet know how it's been for you, perhaps, you know, and maybe there's some facilitated communication, mediation, even, if it's necessary. 

01:48:47 
Awesome. Thank you, Henry. Yeah. Well, I think we have time for one more question. Jason Warner, if you're here and want to ask your question, if you could raise your hand using the raise hand icon, which I see a Jason, but that's okay. 

01:49:12 
I can also ask your question on your behalf. So Jason says, how should we react to legendary zentails describing students practicing diligently for years under a master's tutelage without experiencing awakening, then tripping over a rock or noticing a grasshopper and having a spontaneous transformative experience? 

01:49:35 
Hearing this, how can we continue our commitment to the way, rather than abandoning it, to instead blunder amongst the crags while pursuing the sound of chirrups? Yeah, well, it's a lovely question. I mean, actually, the truth is that in those stories, the point is, they didn't abandon practice, they may have left a particular master, but they carried on their practice, they carried on sitting, it wasn't that they just left it behind, 

01:50:10 
they carried on their sitting, and gradually, gradually their practice was making them more available to reality. It was wearing down the veil between their sense of self and the world outside. Yeah, in some cases it took a whack of a horribly stubbed toe on a rock, but that pierced the veil, that pain pierced the veil. 

01:50:39 
Suddenly, you know, there was nothing but the pain for that was for Gensha, there was nothing but the pain, nothing in the whole universe was present in the pain, and there was no self, nobody there experiencing it, and he was liberated by that, it was a very deep awakening in his case. 

01:50:57 
And we know the story of Kilgan, he was sweeping and he'd given up his, he's given up his training at that time, but not his practice. Now, there's another point here actually is these spontaneous awakenings can happen even before we've done any practice. 

01:51:23 
So why practice at all? Well, my answer is the cart track, that doing the practice is going to help us in all kinds of good ways that are predictable, that are fairly achievable for all of us. You know, with a little bit of guidance and a little bit of diligence on our part, they are, that's the first wheel track. 

01:51:49 
That second wheel track, the sudden realisation is not predictable, but practice makes it more likely. That much we can say, but more importantly, if it happens, practice will allow us to integrate it into our lives in a way that would otherwise probably be impossible. 

01:52:15 
That's really why we must have both sides of the equation. Our regular diligent practice, which is going to bring many benefits. If it happens to catalyse the benefit of an awakening, it's because of it that we'll be able to integrate that awakening into our life and have it really be a fruitful thing for our lives and for those in our lives. 

01:52:44 
Otherwise, it will probably just be a marvellous flash in the pan. Or a shocking, horrifying flash in the pan, in some cases. which it needn't be, it can be such a great gift, but practice helps us unwrap and receive the gift. 

01:53:04 
Okay, thanks for the lovely, many lovely questions, everybody, over to you, Abby. Thank you, Henry. I'm sorry, I wanted to just say one thing. If anybody wants more, on July the 12th, I'm doing a morning at Satie in the Bay Area online, so maybe next week we could put a link in the chat for that, but over to you, Abby. 

01:53:37 
Awesome, thanks for that reminder. We'll get that link for next week and maybe the follow-up email this week, even. Wonderful, and I have just one other announcement, which is Henry is also leading a weekend retreat in Berkeley, California from July 26th to 27th. 

01:53:57 
Um, and I'll put a link in the chat for more information. If you're able to make that, that will also be in the follow up email. So if you have any trouble accessing links that are in the chat, no worries. 

01:54:09 
You'll also receive it later this week. And thank you all so much for being here, for being here live and for watching the recording, whichever way you're engaging and much gratitude to you, Henry, for offering all of your wisdom each of these weeks, and we will be convening again for the last session of the course next Sunday, June 29th, and I'll keep the zoom room open for about five minutes with some soft music, 

01:54:42 
if you'd like that for your transition out, otherwise we look forward to seeing you next week. Thank you all. you 
