
00:04 
Hello, everybody. Hello. Welcome to this fourth and final session of The Guest House with Henry Shucman. It's so wonderful to see you all, those of you joining here live on the Zoom or watching on the recording. 

00:25 
I can just feel the energy every time, like I open up the waiting room and folks start coming in. It's just really beautiful to be in space together. And as you probably know by now, I'm Abby. I use she and they pronouns, and I'm joining you from the unceded lands of the Tewa people known as Oga-Pulge-Owinge colonizes Santa Fe, New Mexico. 

00:51 
And I'll be your Zoom host and tech support for today's session. So if you have any questions or things you need help with during the session, feel free to send me a direct message and I'll do my best to help. 

01:09 
I also just want to share some couple brief tech reminders. First, if you find captions to be something that's helpful for you, those are available during these sessions. If you're here live, it's the CC button that should be at the bottom of your screen. 

01:28 
It says CC like in a little box and you can click on that to have captions if that's supportive for your experience. And also, once we get into the session and the guided meditation and things, if the chat is distracting for you, you can always turn off chat previews so that you don't see those pop-up boxes. 

01:52 
And that you can do simply by locating the chat button at the bottom of your screen. There's a little arrow next to that. And And if you click on the arrow and then click on where it says show chat previews, that will turn those previews off so that you can focus better. 

02:11 
And a reminder for the layout of today's session, we'll do our brief check-in question. I'll pass it over to Henry to do the guided meditation, and then we'll have a short break. Henry will give his talk, and then we'll end with some Q&A and wrap up with announcements. 

02:29 
So for today's check-in question, I'd love to hear from you in the chat, if you'd like to share where you're calling in from, as some of you have already started doing. And what is one thing that you're taking away from this course? 

02:50 
I know we have one more session, so there's still more to absorb and reflect on, but I'm curious to hear. what's been sticking out to you and what you feel like you'll take with you past this course. 

03:05 
For me, what's really sticking is last week when Henry shared the multiple layers of a guest house that this, I'm a innkeeper for this experience and this body, and there's guests that arise here in this embodied heart-mind experience, but I also loved that Henry broadened it out that we're all guests in this bigger guest house of our communities and our planet, and I appreciate reflecting on how can I be a more helpful, 

03:45 
supportive, gentle guest in the guest house that I am in. And turning to the chat, Tracy shared welcoming all of life in conscious, compassionate awareness, no distinctions. Jason shared, I'm not alone. 

04:09 
You definitely are not. Allowing everything to come and go from Nikki Lesley, I am taking another way to be gentle. Windy evening. Melanor sharing experience in the wider context. All is welcome. Inclusion and acceptance of everything within and without. 

04:45 
Really beautiful. Thanks for sharing your weather too. It's always fun to hear where it's sunny or what's going on in your corners of the world. Feel free if you'd still like to check in via chat. That's still very welcome as we gather together in this space. 

05:03 
Thanks for being here, and I'm going to pass it over to Henry for our guided meditation. Okay, okay. Thank you so much, Abby. Thank you so much, everybody, for being here, and thank you folks for watching this as a recording later. 

05:25 
I'm really enjoying seeing these, I'm being a little distracted by the chat, I'm really enjoying seeing all these messages in the chat. I'll have a longer look later, but it was great to see, I just, one that floated up was, yeah, Carston in the Azores, in the Azore Islands in the Atlantic, saying, sorry, just taking me a sec to get there, taking away the ease of embracing all and not having to reject anything. 

05:56 
Wow. beautiful and great to see all the messages from around the world. Jaipur, Abhagaveni, Dunliri, Abinta, both Abhagaveni and Dunliri, ones in Wales, ones in Ireland. You get the ferry to Dunliri often if you're crossing the waters from northern Wales across to Ireland. 

06:20 
I've done that a few times, actually, in my life. And here we are. I can't really believe it, actually. I can't quite catch up. This is the last session of this course. Really? I feel really mixed about it, actually. 

06:39 
I feel quite wistful. I was really feeling sad, actually, as I was sitting this morning. I felt this sadness. I really have felt very grateful to Rumi and the guesthouse, and having a chance to just reflect on the different meanings, and as Abhi was saying, the different sort of levels or layers of inclusivity that we offer and are offered to us. 

07:12 
And I'm sorry to be leaving this topic. And actually, of course, we don't leave it. The great thing is we cannot actually leave it. And some would say we can't even leave it in death, whatever life is, death is, and whatever it is, whatever it is within which this life is arising, whatever it is that is making this life happen, that is timeless, has no beginning, has no end. 

07:45 
That's the insight. That's the wisdom of the deep spiritual traditions. And whatever that is can never really be named. It can have a labels but the labels aren't it, if anything they probably distract us from it. 

08:01 
The only way to know it is you yourself are it. That's how we get to know it by discovering we've never not been it. But what it is, it can't be said. Language can't do it. And so in this final session I do want to go a little bit more into that that territory, awakening, the actual sort of a dropping falling away of the sense of me being a human being who's meditating, who's practicing, who's got this life that started in the cradle and will end in the grave and or the wherever ends you know fire earth basically one of the two typically occasionally it's the sea the great ocean, 

08:58 
water, fire, earth. Sometimes it's air actually with sky burials where they have in the high mountains of the Himalayas where basically the corpse is set out in a high crag somewhere for vultures and they call it a sky burial. 

09:19 
And the vultures are very auspicious and kind of revered creature there. So it's a very, what's the word? Honorable and beautiful thing to be, to have the corpse disposed of that way. But anyway, the guest house actually includes all of the above. 

09:50 
All of the above. And to find that sort of level of the guest house, that's a shift from being a person who's decided to practise and is currently practising to something quite different that we can't name, but we can say things about it like, as some have said, you're no longer a meditator when you find this. 

10:21 
Actually, you're no longer a person the way you'd thought when you find this. And some think that might sound a bit scary. Actually, in and of itself, it is without fear. Fear is not possible when we're really in it, knowing we're, well, knowing it. 

10:46 
And in fact, in the zen-do of our lineage in Kamakura, Japan, there's one big calligraphy above the all. It's just a simple tatami room with mats and an altar at one end, and above the altar, this big calligraphy, and it means, I've heard it actually translated slightly differently in different ways, but it means bringing no fear, bringing no fear, no fear, bringing no fear. 

11:25 
The room is dedicated to no fear. The practice is dedicated to no fear. So let's start with our asit, and then we'll have a little break, and then we'll get into some talk sharing from me and some conversation discussion questions. 

11:56 
And anything else I need to say? No, it's okay. Let's get settled and set up as you'd like to be. Yes, there's one more thing I want to say actually. Just these magnificent creatures behind me, beings behind me. 

12:24 
Aren't they, Marvis? They're a gift from Margie who's in the room with us and has actually lived locally and has always for many years done the flowers actually for Mountain Cloud Zen Center. So thank you Margie for this beautiful to have your presence in all these different ways right here with us, including with these marvelous Delphiniums? 

12:49 
No? Pianis and maybe Delphiniums? Marvelous, thank you. Okay, and by the way, just those of you, somebody was curious. This calligraphy here is a bit special. It comes from, again, a Japanese master in the same lineage. 

13:08 
He was the the abbot at that Zendo I was just talking about, Yamada Cohen. He died in 1989 and he made this calligraphy and it's actually on a piece of beautiful textured silk. And the calligraphy itself means shin. 

13:32 
And that is the word that we don't have a word for in English. It's sometimes wrongly translated as mind, sometimes translated as heart, which is closer, but it means both. It means the heart mind, heart-mind, which isn't a great translation either. 

13:53 
Is it the soul kind of? you know, not meaning some immortal thing, it's the shin, it's the heart mind, and the whole dedication of Zen is actually just to finding that. If we find the heart mind, that's our very own heart mind, that's where we find Buddha. 

14:17 
That's what Zen has said from the beginning, find your own heart mind and you find Buddha. Buddha is not outside you, Buddha nature cannot be outside you, it is you. Okay, that's the promise and dedication of Zen over these centuries, millennia. 

14:42 
Okay, now let's have a sip. But forget about it, we'll just have a sip. Thank you. Okay, so finding your way to, you know, a really comfortable seat, actually just recently I was talking with somebody who forced themselves to do cross legged for years and finally had been persuaded to let go of that, and suddenly their sitting got so much deeper because it isn't all about dreading discomfort, or experiencing discomfort, 

15:37 
it doesn't need to be, just be comfortable, and you know, take a moment to arrive, I don't think arriving is an instantaneous thing really. There's often so much we bring with us when we come into stillness that it, you know, we first step sometimes is really just recognising what's here, what's in the system, what's in the body-mind system. 

16:30 
Thank you. What is showing up in this guest house? Getting to know the guests. Who's here? Thank you. Right, check in with the heart area. The chest area, what energies are there? Any subtle wisps of energy? 

17:15 
Thank you. What if we just let them be here? Let's soften in the body, so let the jaw soften, let the jaw settle, sink, release. Throw it soft, let your face be soft, shoulders, arms, hands, floppy, belly loose, Thank you. 

18:38 
hips, legs, feet, floppy. This is a great way to check that we're balanced if we're sitting with an unsupported back. If we're balanced, we can really be floppy. So if you need to, just make little adjustments so you can really let it all go, and the whole body becomes soft. 

19:22 
Thank you. It's starting to kind of rest into awareness of the soundscape, restfully becoming aware of sounds around you. Thank you. So, clear, strong sounds and subtle sounds. You can, if you'd like, you can pick up the label here, here. 

21:09 
Just as a reminder to be aware of hearing. Thank you. And let's notice if our minds go elsewhere into thought, into storytelling, commentary. Just see if you can, if one of the advantages of picking up a label is that we'll notice quicker, you know, if we've, if we've gone elsewhere. 

22:19 
And if you find, you know, there are thoughts, just label them, memories, plans, imaginings, come back to simply hearing, hearing the soundscape and the body soft. Thank you. Thank you. saddling in with a soft body and we're kind of softly hearing the soundscape. 

23:34 
Thank you. Can the soundscape be something like a quilt tapestry? Thank you. You know, maybe a weave of many threads, of strands. hear hearing hearing soft body, softly hearing, and receiving. . There's a saying in Zen, gentle and precise. 

25:56 
. soft, soft body, soft reception of the soundscape, but clear. Thank you. Is it possible even that the sounds of the world can soften us, make us somehow a bit open, tender, just through hearing, hearing the sounds of the world? 

27:06 
. This this shin of ours, you know, it's not just about mind and awareness, it's also including the heart, the vulnerability, the openness, tenderness. Thank you. You know, somewhere, somewhere way back as young children, we probably knew that it's a great gift to be hearing sounds themselves, a kind of gift or treasure, a special thing. 

28:35 
Thank you. See, we're gently exploring being, just coming to recognize and know being and explore it. It's a never-ending mystery, being itself. Thank you. . What is it to exist? Thank you. What is it to sense the soundscape? 

30:10 
Thank you. But these questions aren't meant to make us think about them then. really intended just to see if we can taste it a bit more vividly, personally. What is this soundscape of mine that I'm hearing? 

30:48 
What is hearing? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. If you're curious, there's another invitation here. Can we sense a kind of space within which the soundscape is arising? As if there were a kind of, I don't know, goldfish bowl all around us, in which we're sitting in, and sounds are arising within that, or perhaps like a snow globe all around us, and we're tasting these little fragments of experience, 

32:11 
sound and body sensations, all within that space. Can you taste something like that? No effort here, just Really, resting with the soft body, resting with the soundscape, and just a little invitation is there some sense of a space within which they're both appearing. 

32:50 
Thank you. We might say that somehow all this sense experience, sounds, body sensations, thoughts, feelings when they arise, they're all arising within my awareness. Maybe that space Henry's talking about is sort of my awareness. 

34:11 
That's just great if we can get a sense of that, the larger space of our awareness. And of course, know where as if this isn't quite landing for you, just stay with the soundscape, stay with the soft body, do some labelling if thoughts are coming. 

34:41 
Thank you. Is there a kind of space of awareness within which I'm aware I know sense experience, sense experiences arise? Thank you. Thank you. Perhaps this space would be my larger guesthouse, the larger guesthouse of which I'm the host. 

36:01 
Thank you. allowing sounds, thoughts, body sensations, welcoming them, meeting them with warmth. Thank you. Somehow, the more we allow, the more we rest, the less we do. Thank you. Allowing, allowing. 

37:41 
Thank you. Is there a way that allowing can allow us? We ourselves are allowed by allowing. Thank you. We ourselves are welcomed by a greater welcome. Thank you. Is it possible somehow that our guest house, our space of welcome, our space of awareness and allowing, could that all be? 

39:51 
Welcomed by a larger guest house, a larger space, even a spaceless space of welcome, of allowing. Is it, is it possible that all this life where there's time and me and you and self and world, somehow all of it is included in a larger existence, a wider being, a wider existence where there's no time, timeless. 

42:31 
Thank you. In a way, it turned. Without time. maybe a reality of of no knowable size some might say an awareness that's boundless limitless maybe it's just a welcome without limit and allowing a being, being timeless without beginning without end boundless Thank you. 

44:24 
No trying, no effort, just allowing. Allowing without limits. Thank you. Soft heart, warm heart. . Limitless, timeless, allowing. Thank you. Thank you. I totally invite you to keep going with this sit-if, if that feels like the most wise and compassionate thing to do, and also, you know, we're going to be having a break now until the top of, until Henry worked this out, until 55 minutes past the hour. 

46:43 
So that's eight minutes, and if it seems like the most compassionate and wise to have a break now and get a cup of tea or something, we'll do that. And I'll see you in just a little bit. Thank you all very much. 

47:00 
May all beings be well. you Hi everyone. For those of you who are still meditating, please feel free to continue. For those of you who are maybe transitioning out, in just a moment I'm going to be putting up a poll, like usual, for you to choose up to four questions that you'd be most interested in having answered during today's Q&A. 

47:40 
So I'll get that going and we'll see you at 55 or five minutes before the hour. Thanks for watching! You You Thank you. Thanks for watching! You You You You Thank you. You You You You Thanks for watching! 

52:23 
Welcome back everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much for joining and for your sitting. I hope it was a helpful sit for you in some ways. I mean, you know, I offer the guidance I can and that occurs to me in the moment and that I've thought about beforehand. 

52:48 
But I think the most important thing is, you know, you have the sit you need, you know. So if the guidance is working for you and it's inviting some curiosity and some interesting experience, that's great. 

53:03 
And if you need to redirect yourself, that's great too. Oh my gosh, I can't believe it's the last talk of this course. I, you know, I have this sort of feeling that I've got to really try to give a good one because it's the closing one. 

53:23 
And this is what you'll remember. And I want to really be helpful. And I just don't know if I'll manage to. So I've got my plan. But as I think I said right early on, I believe in talks emerging, you know, and not being like just reading something to you or that I've prepared beforehand. 

53:46 
I never found that went with my own teachers, even though some of them were absolutely brilliant. It was never quite the same as when a talk emerges. So let's hope that the talk that emerges is a helpful one. 

54:00 
That's my great wish and that it'll encourage and inspire and help you all in your practice, your practice. your practice is the one thing that really matters. Don't ever be thinking it's some other kind of practice that you should be living up to, you should be doing. 

54:18 
And in fact I'm going to read, no I'm not, I'm just, I'm about to read something but I just want to orient us a tiny bit before I do that. Just a reminder, last week we were looking at, actually as Abby nicely said, you know, sort of different levels of guesthouse. 

54:33 
We were also talking about what we can do and what somehow is actually also being done for us and to start to recognize that more. And we had a little bit more on resistance versus allowing. We talked about the seven factors of awakening and how the last one is equanimity and that is actually another word for allowing. 

55:02 
It's another word for allowing. Now if that's one of the factors awakening, surely we can see that we don't need our experience to be any other than the way it is. That's really the heart of this message. 

55:24 
We don't need our experience to be other than it is. It's such a pervasive and pernicious idea that we all get about meditation is that it's supposed to be a certain way and that way it's supposed to be is definitely not the way I'm experiencing it. 

55:48 
There's some other way it's supposed to be and I'm trying to get to that other way. That is exactly what I'm most trying to share is I believe wrong. Okay in Salzburg she agrees with me. Okay, early in my practice I got the idea that really good meditators were continuously being bathed in a flood of white light. 

56:19 
No one ever told me I had to experience this white light. Somehow I just imagined that it was a sign of good practice and I had a sneaking suspicion that as soon as I finally experienced white light my teachers would bestow the truth upon me finally they would say we'd almost given up hope that you would ever get here. 

56:41 
But I didn't experience any white light. I mostly had me pain. As time went on and my practice deepened I had many different experiences but none of them were white light and I really wanted that white light. 

56:58 
No matter what I experienced it wasn't good enough for me. Where is the light? Why isn't it here? This was my inner incantation. I felt contemptuous of my practice and judged it constantly, comparing it with what I thought should be happening. 

57:15 
The heartache was tremendous. In meditation practice, as in life, we might judge our difficult experiences, such as restlessness, negative mind states, physical pain, and so on, as not being right, as being somehow out of place or worthless. 

57:35 
Let me just say that again. In meditation practice, we might judge our negative experiences as being somehow out of place or worthless. I feel the pain in that, yeah? We often try to prolong pleasant experiences as though they're the only ones worth having. 

57:53 
But with increased patience and insight, meditation practice can take us beyond these conditioned reactions. Just going a little bit more, once when I was sitting with Upandita, this was her teacher in Burma, in Myanmar, I began to notice, once sitting with Upandita, I began to notice a recurring pattern in our interviews. 

58:20 
Whenever I told him about a meditation experience that I thought was wonderful and impressive, his response was, did you note it? In his tradition of practice, noting refers to placing a mental label on each experience. 

58:35 
There's a little bit like what we're doing, hearing sounds, memories, plans, imaginings with thoughts, body and so on. We're doing a simplified version of that. In his tradition of practice, noting refers to placing a mental label on each experience so as to know it more directly. 

58:53 
But I would sit there and think, what does it mean, did you note it? It was glorious. How could I have just noted it like everything else? In other times I went to see him with doleful accounts of painful meditation experiences. 

59:08 
He looked at me and said each time, did you note it? I would think, what does he mean, did he note it? It was awful. Can't he understand that? It took a while for me to appreciate the simplicity and importance of Upandita's approach. 

59:26 
He was asking me if I'd been aware of each experience with spaciousness and clarity of mind. He was far less concerned with what was happening than with the quality of awareness I was bringing to it. 

59:42 
What we want in practice is to understand the nature of our lives, and this does not demand a particular experience, but a quality of awareness that excludes nothing. This is really, this is, I mean, this is a heart as wide as the world. 

01:00:11 
It's a great title. I think it's my favorite Sharon Salzberg book. It's actually one of the early ones, but I need to read more to be sure. But anyway, it's a great point she's making, you know, good and bad, pleasure and pain, success and failure to practice. 

01:00:42 
But the whole point of practice is it's a guest house, meaning pleasure is welcome, pain is actually welcome, good is welcome, bad is welcome, success is welcome, failure is welcome. There's a, there's a great Zen master. 

01:01:06 
There's a great non-master famed in those who know about Zen, Deishan, or Tokusan in the Japanese pronunciation, and Deishan, he had a kind of cataclysmic awakening at a certain point where there was just nothing at all, everything just, there's no me, there's no world, nothing. 

01:01:32 
And it was filled with energy and bliss, you know, and then he sort of, you know, he went around kind of meeting other teachers and being quite sort of arrogant, or quite sort of, maybe not arrogant, but just he'd sort of take them on and, you know, nothing, nothing, you know, you can't touch me in any way, because there's nothing to touch, or something, you know, and anyway, he was, but he was very, 

01:01:58 
he really was, you know, very clear. Then he starts teaching, and he's still quite severe as a teacher, because he's so clear to him, why can't these fools get it kind of thing, it's so obvious, you know, and he would, he would, people would, he'd sort of come into the meditation hall and invite questions, and usually if somebody asked him a question, he'd, I don't know, he'd do something, I'd slap them, 

01:02:26 
or sort of, you know, or tell them to go away, and you know, and then one person, and often he'd say wrong, wrong, you know, and one person, he'd say, people would ask a question, he'd say wrong, he wouldn't answer the question, he'd just say wrong, like the whole question is wrong, you know, and then one time somebody came up to ask a question, and he said wrong before they'd said anything, and the person said wait a minute, 

01:02:56 
I haven't even asked my question yet, how do you know it's wrong already, and he said it's already wrong, that was the end of the thing. but actually, you know, it sounds, I know it's sort of, you know, maybe it's a bit harsh, it sounds quite harsh, but actually he was making a point that our right and our wrong are wrong. 

01:03:20 
Did I get it? Did I not get it? Wrong. That mind that is assessing, judging, discriminating, making this is good, this is bad, that mind itself isn't wrong, it's included. Okay? It's included. The real guesthouse, I mean, we learn, we have to learn with this guesthouse that we are trying to become. 

01:04:01 
We have to, we have to... it's all we can do is try to be a better guest house ourselves and you know make our way creep up that ladder of the seven factors of awakening to equanimity unconditional allowing we can't do anything but that because you know we're we're these beautiful frail erring human creatures so we've got to make our way the best we can but sometimes we get I mean like like sometimes we get a we suddenly discover that that while we're doing that the best we can there's a way in which we're already part of of a of the totality of existence and we're not in any way in any part of us nothing we can do is excluded so we we're trying to be the best guest house we can be yes nice but sometimes we'll get a glimpse that actually we are already in a unavoidably part of the great guest house and um and I I say this with a little bit of hesitation because because um it could come across as I like I'm saying like Sharon Southberg oh my gosh I want to have a taste of that great guest house Henry's talking about there's some way my practice is supposed to be but actually it's much better than that if we ourselves really uh keep bringing in this concept of allowing allowing allowing allowing. 

01:06:05 
And we'll notice at times that we're most definitely not allowing, but even that we can learn to allow. We can learn to allow our not being able to allow something. So the more that this we can actually do, I mean it takes practice, but we can do it, and the more we are allowing, sort of indiscriminately, I mean in our own experience, this is the case. 

01:06:42 
This is the case. I allow it. That's equanimity. The more we're doing that, actually we truly are tasting, you know, what that infinite timeless eternal being is we're actually tasting it, and it doesn't matter whether we get it, see it, know it vividly or not, it actually stops mattering. 

01:07:22 
Because true, this truly, this allowing itself that we can do, you know, if we're really doing it, we're really allowing. Do you see what I mean? If we're really doing it, we're really allowing, and we're sort of freed by that. 

01:07:49 
And we can do that. Ah, I don't know if I'm making myself clear, it's a little tricky. If we're really, I mean it's a little tricky to sort of convey this, or maybe I'm just a bit, I can't, I'm not the greatest communicator. 

01:08:07 
If we're really allowing, then it's already unconditional. It's already not looking for something else. Yes, yes. Does that make sense? If we're really allowing, then we're obviously, we've really got there. 

01:08:29 
We're not saying there's some special experience, there's some magnificent something or other that I must experience, and look at me, I'm not experiencing it. Allow, allow, allow. You know, and there's another thing that, how can I put it? 

01:08:53 
Thank you. I mean, I want to say the timeless that way. has no time, is always here, is always here, and it's never anywhere else. Okay? Does that make sense? It can't be anywhere else. So all we're ever doing is just sort of settling, you know, like that pebble that floats, not floats, sinks, sorry, down through a pond. 

01:09:40 
And there isn't a bed, like it's now it's settled on the bed of the pond. Some ponds are like that. This isn't. This is a lake. And the lake just gets more and more silt the deeper you get. But there's no bottom. 

01:10:00 
You just get more and more silt. silt. Right? Silty. So the progress, the sinking of the pebble just gets slower and slower because there's more and more silt, until it's just completely saturated and closed. 

01:10:18 
That's not the right word I know. But imagine, soaked, covered totally in silt, and it's still sinking, and it'll never get to the end of the sinking. That's what we're doing when we sit, really, I mean, we may think we're doing all kinds of other things, but the bigger picture is that we're just settling deeper and deeper into what? 

01:10:42 
We're into the only thing there is. Now. We're sinking, settling into now. And actually, nothing can really stop us. There isn't really anything that can sort of get between us and now. Especially if we understand it's the only way to sink and settle into now is allowing. 

01:11:20 
It's not about, oh my gosh, I got this difficult thoughts and feelings and restless and, you know, I'll never get that. There's some other path I should be on that doesn't have all those feelings and thoughts in it. 

01:11:39 
I should be on, you know, these thoughts and feelings are here, but over there is the true path of meditation. I've got to get there to do this sinking, settling thing Henry's talking about. The only way for me to really get deep, like Henry's just been saying, is to not be here with what's going on, but to be over there with what should be going on. 

01:12:03 
But that is exactly the way that we don't sink and settle. It's exactly that. We sink and settle with what is arising. Not what we think should be arising. It's simply by being with what experience is right now. 

01:12:28 
Oh my gosh, do I get, am I conveying this? And it's really true. You might be thinking, ah, it's all right for Henry, he's done 30 years of co-hand training or something. No, no, no, for real, all we need to do ever is actually be with experience as it is. 

01:12:51 
Now, not because it's good instruction, because that's all we ever can do. That's really all we've ever got. What do you take that on say? The only thing we've got is the present moment, and it contains everything. 

01:13:10 
We only have one thing now, and everything is here. Okay, I'm going to come back to my notes just to check. Yeah, I just want to say a little bit about approaches, just a little bit more on approaches to what I've just been saying, but there's a slightly different way of looking at it, with approaches to negative, difficult experience, really. 

01:13:59 
We're all quite good hosts to the nice stuff, right? But how can we be good hosts to the difficult stuff? I would be remiss if I didn't bring up a coin that speaks right to this, which is from, I'm just trying to remember their relationship. 

01:14:23 
I was hoping he's just trying to remember, is he like a, is this person a kind of Dharma or successor to Deishan? I was just talking about, actually I don't think he is, but he's called Tozan or Dongshan, this one. 

01:14:40 
And he said, well, a student came to him and said, what should I do when cold comes? A footnote here is that these Zendos in China and likewise in Japan, they usually have very little insulation, so they'd be very cold in Japan. 

01:15:03 
winter, and they wore robes, you know, which are, they didn't have furs and walls, they had these cotton robes, so they get pretty chilly, and likewise in summer they get pretty, pretty, pretty damn hot, and often they'd be mosquitoes, and they'd open up the louvered windows, and they'd be very hot, and mosquitoes, and don't move, you know, you have to sit still, you know, it's a sort of crash course in equanimity, 

01:15:28 
but, so the student asks, what should I do when cold comes? And Dongshan answers, why don't you go to the place where there's no cold? And the student says, is there really such a place? Is there really a place where there's no cold? 

01:15:51 
I mean, they're not thinking geography, you know, and the student and the teacher Dongshan answers, when cold comes, let cold kill you. When heat comes, let heat kill you." Yacht's quite strong language, but it's talking about radical equanimity. 

01:16:26 
How, what is, what if we really, and you know, of course, we're, we could, this is a koan actually not just about heat and cold, it's about all kind of, all kinds of discomfort, distress, unease, disaster, catastrophe. 

01:16:49 
It's about all our hardest things. When cold comes, let cold kill you. That's his teaching, is actually allow so thoroughly what is arising, that in the end somehow that allowing becomes more than you. 

01:17:26 
Somehow that allowing becomes the primary salient feature of experience. It's so beautiful. It's so simple, but it's so beautiful. When the allowing becomes the primary thing in our experience. I don't exactly know the mechanics of it, but the sense of self gets kind of untied. 

01:17:59 
There's just allowing. undoes us, because I think probably it's because what our sense of self that we're really familiar with mostly is, is a little system of resisting and seeking. You know, that that's what the self does, it resists and it seeks. 

01:18:27 
So if we're just kind of overwhelmed by allowing, but we don't have to have some, you know, magnificent awakening experience. Allowing itself is that, allowing supersedes the sense of self. Is that, is that making sense? 

01:18:55 
It's so beautiful, I wish I could. really share that with you. It's just so beautiful. And the fact that it's so simple makes it even more beautiful. And the fact that it's always applicable makes it so simple, makes it so beautiful. 

01:19:12 
We're so lucky to to have this incredible, you know, thing going on called being alive as a human being. And having found a practice by, you know, by whatever twists and turns that allows us to actually kind of address our being human. 

01:19:36 
It meets our being human. Practice is, I think it's the one thing that I know that's big enough to really meet life and death. It actually includes life and death. I want to read you a little bit from a book I just heard about, called In This Body, In This Lifetime, awakening stories of Japanese Soto Zen women, who were all students of Sozen Nagasawa ni Roshi, who was a great, she was a great Roshi in 20th century Japan, 

01:20:19 
who's very closely related to our Berlinians that I'm part of, Sam Bozen. She was taught by Daion Sugaku Roshi, Harado Roshi, who died in, I think, the 40s, who actually Philip Caplo Roshi, who founded Mountain Cloud, trained with Harado Roshi, probably sat beside Sozen Nagasawa Roshi, maybe in the Zendo in a little town called Obama, in a temple called Hoshinji. 

01:20:57 
So I'm just going to read you some few excerpts from one of one of these students who herself became a Zen teacher of Nagasawa Roshi, who was she was a student of Harada Roshi. This is her story. I lost in the war my beloved only son for whom there is no replacement in heaven or on earth. 

01:21:21 
Just three days after graduating from Tokyo Imperial University, he left for the front in high spirits to serve as a reservist. In the Philippines, the lifetime of this mere sapling of 26 was ended. May the 7th 1945 was a day I won't ever be able to forget. 

01:21:45 
It is when I received the remains of my son's body, returned ceremonially with the news of his death in war. I cannot express the grief and anguish I felt. when I held in my arms this small box made of plain wood even in such words as I felt like vomiting blood or I was in heart-rending grief only other mothers who experienced this can know the feeling from a world of light I was thrown into a world of darkness I lost all desire to live all my happiness was taken away I had devoted my life to raising this son off I had taken such delight in my beloved Charles growth for him to reach adulthood was my one great goal the only light and hope of my life whatever pains and sorrows that arose along the way amounted to nothing my life had been vibrant like an always full moon now I lived in grief empty like a soulless puppet devastated by the loss of my child grieving day and night I don't know how many times I thought to follow my beloved child into death but each time when I was about to do it I would clearly hear his deep deep I would clearly hear his dear voice saying mum you must not die please be happy please live in happiness finally I met Susan Nakagawa Roshi of Kanonji the nuns training Morris monastery and I listened to one of her talks at first I thought how could a nun who was never given birth or raised a child let alone had her child be killed ever understand this pain this suffering there's no one in the world I can turn to my heart remained shut tight however as I listened to her I was deeply moved by her character there was some untouchable intensity about her at the same time she had a childlike innocence that pulled me toward her and she decided to give Zazen a try. 

01:24:07 
She then talked about her time in the Zendo, doing various retreats and training more and more, and how hard it is. I had exhausted all means. I had nothing to hang on to. Thrown down and sunk to the very bottom, I felt that there was no hope for me anymore, that I was a sinful person, completely without the right to be saved. 

01:24:31 
I even thought my son disappeared with dew on the battlefield, but his anguish couldn't be worse than his mother's is now. You know, in the course of several retreats, she's having a very, very hard time. 

01:24:46 
But then, until then, I'd been trapped, enclosed in a narrow and hard shell, unable to move. With the progress of the practice, my self-centeredness started to recede and freed from distracting thoughts gradually, I was able to taste an expansive, bright world. 

01:25:07 
From the bottom of my heart, I could even have bowed in gratitude for a single slice of pickled radish, one grain of rice in the rice gruel, starting to recover something. And then she's actually working with this koan moo, and one morning she describes sitting with this koan. 

01:25:44 
She says, you know, harmonizing with my moo, moo, moo. That's a moo. She's practicing with the koan. The tree outside was making the earth tremble, urging me on. All the flowers and every single azalea leaf were talking to me. 

01:26:06 
At night the brilliant moon became one with me, laughing. Morning came. How pleasant was the morning practice? How clear the little bird song was. The sound of the chopping board of the temple's cook was so crisp. 

01:26:22 
Chop, chop, chop. The sound of the mallet of the elderly lady living behind the temple, cracking open soybean pods. Everything was an exquisite piece of music that no words in the world could describe. 

01:26:38 
There was no longer that the clinging to my beloved dead son had disappeared, as had the painful pursuit of my koan. Then, She hears the temple bell ring, and in that instant she realized that she wasn't separate from anything. 

01:27:06 
Heaven and earth are one. Myself and the universe are one body. Buddha is what I am. There's only unity. There's no gap for a feather even to pass through. No one can ever harm this. It transcends even death. 

01:27:28 
Even the fearsome abbess at the monastery can't damage or destroy it. The timeless indestructible life is continuously bestowing me with each moment. Here, living and working together with my dead son is a joy that cannot be expressed in words. 

01:27:52 
This is Buddha mind, that. is Buddha mind. There's nothing that's not Buddha mind. My life is complete and overflowing in this fresh, pure, vast heaven and earth. So she allows and allows and allows. 

01:28:18 
And finally nothing is excluded, not even the death of her son. And it is, it is possible this, it is real, it is actually here, just this universal allowing that excludes nothing. And again I want to just remind us, we don't, we don't get there because it's already here. 

01:28:55 
We don't find it because it's already us. We don't need to strive for it because we are it. The only thing we need to do is just allow, allow, allow. Guest house, guest house, guest house. Okay, we'll hit pause, we never stop, hit pause now. 

01:29:41 
And you know, let's go into some questions and let's see what comes up in the questions and yeah. Thank you again for hearing me out and thank you for being here. Great. Thank you, Henry. We'll do a couple questions, regular case, and then we'll go into a lightning round of about five questions. 

01:30:22 
And these first two were submitted anonymously, so I'll ask them on behalf of whoever submitted them. This first question, I kind of, there were two really similar questions actually, so I'm going to combine this question with the second one because they're both about overwhelming, difficult, negative emotions. 

01:30:48 
So this person asks for them, anxiety can be relentless. specifically physical symptoms like pain and tension in their chest. They feel like they can with effort be an understanding and keeper, at least for a short period of time. 

01:31:05 
But after some time, eventually this person goes back to being worn down in a state of bitterness and anchor. So the kind of two part question, and this is where I kind of combined with the other is how can this person treat this guest of anxiety or other strong negative emotions honorably, and how can we also handle potential negative spirals that these emotions can create? 

01:31:40 
Yeah, thanks. That's a, that's a really great question. Um, I kind of want to say that the most important guest is you. So if anxiety is arising and it's great that you can be with it at times for a short time, but more important is you being kind to you, you being a good guest to you, you know, the, the, the anxiety, I mean, you know, each of us is a suffering being that's really the key thing. 

01:32:17 
And how do we host ourselves kindly? So if you, if you're trying to sit and it's just overwhelming, this pain in the chest or, or wherever you're experiencing it, um, and it's great by the way, also that you're experiencing, experiencing it somatically. 

01:32:37 
Um, there are, there's a, there's a, there's a guy called Les Famy, who did these great, this great practice with pain, with physical pain, but actually it can apply to emotional pain as well, and he might. 

01:32:54 
just check out Les Famy meditations. There's some that I found online and found really helpful myself. And so there are specific meditations, specific practices that we can do, you know, to be with very difficult body sensation and intense emotion is difficult body sensation, it is. 

01:33:20 
But you know, it might also be more humane just to lie down. It might be more humane to go for a walk. It might be more humane to have a cup of tea. I remember when I was starting out in meditation, actually, you know, I was doing TM, we have a mantra. 

01:33:39 
And the whole thing was got to repeat this mantra for 20 minutes of sitting twice a day. And after only a few weeks, I would start sitting and I get this intense sensation in my chest. I was 25 years old and I didn't know what it was and I went to the, you could have the TM thing, you're allowed a couple of check-ins, brief check-ins with the instructor and I went to see the instructor and a house off the Marilyn Road in London and you know and I told him about it and he said well let's try, 

01:34:19 
let's do a sit together. So he started sitting and he said you tell me when it comes on. So he started sitting and almost immediately it came on and he said well we've hardly started. I said it's here, it was like a bar in my chest, a bar of iron in my chest and I said okay drop the mantra, don't touch the mantra, just try to be with that sensation, you know, just rest with it, be with it and I tried to do that and it was pretty uncomfortable and I could sort of do it, 

01:34:57 
I mean I carried on doing my 20 minutes try today because I was desperate, you know, I didn't want to let go of that but actually in my case as a young man I was lucky and I found my way into therapy and which was kind of a big deal because I felt so much shame around my psychological and emotional state and a lot of, felt a lot of stigma around not being happier but luckily I could somehow negotiate my way around my own shame and start therapy and yeah I had a therapeutic journey to go on and I'm glad I did and it continues actually but I then learned that this was an emotion, 

01:35:47 
this thing I was feeling was actually an emotion and that I had something called emotions, you know, I was so emotionally uneducated, illiterate, having grown up in a highly rational academic environment. 

01:36:03 
I just knew, I really knew nothing about my emotional life and I had to start finding out about it. So I don't really know necessarily what's the right thing to do and you may well already have a therapeutic side in your life and that's great. 

01:36:20 
I would guess body stuff is gonna be good. Yoga, qigong, movement, dance. Dance might be the thing. I don't know, walking, hiking, running, biking. I don't know, body things I think can be really important. 

01:36:38 
I've done some somatic therapy at times, which has been incredibly helpful for me. Somatic experiencing. The way I would see it is like this. Meditation is great as a... are the keystone, cornerstone habit. 

01:36:58 
We want to just keep it going, I think. And it functions, it's really good for us. It's a great journey of healing and of discovery in itself. But it's also a barometer. It tells us how we're doing. You can't really fake it when you meditate. 

01:37:13 
And if you sit down, I mean, for me, for example, as a young man, you know, I was in a culture where it was common to drink most nights. Not to get, you know, terribly, terribly drunk, but have a beer or two. 

01:37:26 
That was just a common way of socializing. And when I started meditating, I could not fool myself that it didn't have an effect the next morning. And, you know, I was face to face with this, this doesn't feel good. 

01:37:40 
Therefore, I actually started to drink less, which I'm really happy. I did, you know. And so think of meditation as it's giving us a read on how we're doing. What do we need? Meditation can help with an awful lot, but sometimes it needs help as well to help us, you know. 

01:38:03 
But so you're getting a read on how you're doing from your meditation. And I would encourage you to be open to other sources of help. Just be exploratory. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Henry. We'll do another regular paced question. 

01:38:32 
This next one says regarding the idea that all thoughts, sensations, etc., are simply arisings in consciousness. How is it explained that what arises in my consciousness is different than what arises in someone else's? 

01:38:50 
Oh, my gosh. Well, I mean, oh, my gosh. Well, That's a great beast of a question, a terrific question. But obviously we all have our own particular threads of karma, of experience, of inheritance. We're all human, we've all got the human equipment by and large, approximately the same, human body, human mind, human heart. 

01:39:17 
But in a wheel, there's infinite variety. It's like, actually, are any two leaves identical on a single tree? I don't know. Maybe they're not. But we know, you know, there's this particularities of every single human individual. 

01:39:38 
Their DNA, you know, all these little micro-differences, but they add up to a different person. Remarkable, you know? And so the question of, of that is a confusion of levels, actually, it may be. I mean, I think you're referring to the fact that some teachings say that all of this is consciousness. 

01:40:04 
All experiencing, you know, the cushion on the couch is consciousness, actually. And the sun shining in the sky is consciousness. The human body is consciousness. And if it's all consciousness, why is my consciousness different from your consciousness? 

01:40:20 
Well, on some level it's not, but actually the underlying unitary consciousness, it just adores making multiplicity. It's his favorite thing, it's the creativity of all these different things. So don't let's get confused. 

01:40:40 
Yamada Cohen Roshi in his book, Zen the Authentic Gate, he's got this great example. Your one life, but a drop of blood and a hair are really different. One's a red liquid, one's a black solid, you know, and yet they are all one life. 

01:40:56 
It's exactly analogous. The fundamental being, the ground of being, or the one, you know, what they call the force consciousness in Advaita Vedanta, the Turya, the consciousness that is all other kinds of consciousness. 

01:41:13 
There's all other kinds of things. It, on that level, it's all one, absolutely. And yet it's wrong to say that the left hand is the right hand, just an analogy. Wonderful, thank you, Henry. I'm just gonna get our little timer set up here. 

01:41:41 
I'll put it for 45 seconds, like we've been doing. And this first question for our lightning round is after over five decades of practice, practice. So sitting daily, going on different retreats, listening to talks. 

01:41:59 
This person still has little silence, joy, absorption, no kencho or enlightenment experiences. They're understandably sad and discouraged, blaming themself only. But wondering, is this still a viable path for them and whether they're alone in this arena? 

01:42:23 
Yes, I think I saw that that got voted up high up the list of questions in the poll. So I think that is a strong indication that they're not alone in this, that you're not alone in this. Promises of practice somehow not seeming to live up to the claims, something like that. 

01:42:45 
For me, others may be, but not me. Abby, we might have to go a little bit long. Give me two. two doses of this because it's a very important question. I mean, I think, isn't it a little bit related to what Sharon Salzburg was talking about? 

01:43:03 
White light, I've got to have white light, blue light, red light, yellow light, all these different things that should come and they're not coming. Can you allow this moment, now, you know, maybe there's some pain that isn't quite being allowed, maybe there's some heartache that isn't quite being allowed, that that is actually the path, that is the way, the sweet pain, the sweet dejection, not so sweet, 

01:43:53 
dejection is not sweet, that's what, but it becomes sweet if it's allowed. No, it doesn't, it's horrible. Okay, can I just be with it? No, I don't want to be with it. Okay, there's resistance. Can I be without resistance? 

01:44:14 
Maybe a little bit. Can I not be demanding that the resistance go away? Can I be just with it? All we're looking for is a little, there's this little tiny turning where compassion comes on, vulnerability, tenderness, compassion, they're just one of those. 

01:44:53 
they just switch on a little bit and that's that's it that's the way just feeling that's the flavor of allowing it has a little bit of a yielding in it of a surrender in it yeah I mean yeah okay let's go on to another one thanks thank you this next one which I think this person was referring to the meditations in the way app they say sometimes I feel I should be doing the early meditations many times because of my busy brain would you suggest going back to those on a regular basis I You know, 

01:45:53 
the whole thought process we have with the way is, here's the pathway, it's yours. Do what you like with it. And if you're ever in doubt, just keep going. But if you feel called to repeat one, absolutely do. 

01:46:13 
Thank you. Thank you. And this next one, this person asks, what is your experience with self-forgiveness, and what a the way approach to this practice be? Oh my gosh. Well, you know, I'm just wondering if I've got much to say on this. 

01:46:41 
It's a really good question. I mean, I sort of feel that my whole path of practice has in some ways been about self-forgiveness. I was pretty harsh and I, you know, as I mentioned earlier, I had a lot of shame and I had a lot of shame about my shame. 

01:47:02 
If you see what I mean? I was very ashamed of being shame, feeling shame, not good enough, unworthy, unlovable, unworthy, all of that. You know, I had quite a lot of that as a young man. And maybe it's not exactly the same as self-forgiveness, but some kind of self-acceptance was a really important dimension for me. 

01:47:26 
And definitely the path of meditation. And in my case, I needed to combine it with therapy, you know, which I've done different forms of over the years. And all of it has combined to make me much more self-accepting, not perfectly, but more so. 

01:47:44 
And that, you know, I think that's a flavor of self-forgiveness. I feel the tenderness in me is often accessible to me. And that can include being for me, you know, for messed up me. Who makes mistakes, you know, horrendous mistakes. 

01:48:02 
I remember once in a therapy group as a young man, I was saying, but I've made so many terrible mistakes. And there was another guy three times older than me across the room who sort of chuckled and said, Henry, don't you realize life is made of terrible mistakes? 

01:48:16 
It was actually really helpful to hear it, although I didn't really agree with him, but it did help, yeah. Thank you. I'm not going to put the timer on for this next question, because I think it's important we get to it. 

01:48:32 
And I'm going to try to, it's very related to, these are both about kind of applying these teachings to our world in this moment. And I think they're going to try to put them together as we start to wrap up. 

01:48:49 
So, It seems as if some people strive ruthlessly for power over others to the point of losing almost all humanity. So the first part of this question is, is there a point where someone's humanity is lost or abandoned because they're so striving for this power over? 

01:49:15 
Or is there hope for everyone? And how does this impact our ability to react to this and to stand up to the cruel behavior that we're witnessing? Right, right, right. Yes, this is really important. We're in a poly crisis. 

01:49:45 
There's wars and oppression. We've been in deeply racist and unfair societies a long time. And our democracy is undoubtedly under threat right now. I just read about an Australian writer, 33 years old, who was denied entry to the US because he'd written on his blog about Palestine. 

01:50:10 
Denied entry, you know, that is, and the rounding up of immigrants and so on by masked ICE officials. It's an attack on democracy. And there's a great article in The New York Times today by a Beelorussian photographer who now is in exile in Poland. 

01:50:35 
She just described watching the erosion of democracy in Beelorussia, which had a chance of being free of totalitarianism after the fall of the Soviet Union and was taken over by an authoritarian now dictator. 

01:50:51 
and she said it's not a wrecking ball, it's a hatchet, repeated many small blows that does it. So we can't deny any of this. But what's the practice? Well, the first is a view, the understanding of it. 

01:51:11 
There are three poisons at work in humanity. That's the Buddhist, one Buddhist way it states it, the poisons of greed, hatred, ill-will aggression, and delusion, misunderstanding, confusion, ignorance. 

01:51:30 
And the deepest, the first ignorance is not understanding that there are the other two poisons, that there are things at work in us. I mean, you know, that's a traditional Buddhist way of framing it, a modern, more scientific way of saying, look, we've inherited evolutionary through evolution, we've inherited wiring. 

01:51:51 
neurological circuits that can be very beautiful, and collaborative, and compassionate, and caring, and creative, marvelously so, and marvelously curious, and investigative about this world. There's amazing things that we have the capacity for, as humans, brilliant things, and incredible cultural things we've achieved. 

01:52:10 
I don't know if any of you have read Daniel Dennett, his book, From Bacteria to Bark and Back. How did bacteria, which is early life, end up with us listening to Bark, who's written these unbelievable fugues on the organ, and for chorus and orchestra, and bacteria, trillions upon trillions of single cells doing that, doing Bark. 

01:52:41 
How did that happen? But at the same time, we've got this wiring that can be extremely cruel. We can dehumanize other human beings, the drop of a hat, and if we're totally driven by the three poisons, slipping back to the Buddhist view, you know, the kinds of things we see, what is gonna happen? 

01:53:09 
And so, various things need to be said here. I'll turn to it quickly. The first is that it was ever thus. Actually, it's not new. Look at the history of African-Americans in America. It's appalling brutality, and it's still going on. 

01:53:30 
If you haven't seen the movie The 13th, please watch it. Britain is now just starting to face its participation in slavery. You know, when slavery was taught at school in England, when I was a kid, all it was ever taught was the abolition of slavery. 

01:53:51 
They never talked about the 200 years of British participation in the slave trade. They never talked about the fact that the monarchs, the royals were the apex of the slave trade in Britain. There was the Royal African Slave Company. 

01:54:12 
Royal African Slave Company. It was absolutely institutionalized in the state. We're appalled by erosion of democracy right now, but actually it's been a cruel world for so many people for so long. No rights at all. 

01:54:37 
Now what's happening in Britain is some people are welcoming the opening up of the topic, and some people are absolutely hating it. Denial is very, very strong. denial has a lot of energy in it. Denial locks up a lot of energy. 

01:54:58 
And then when things start being revealed, the energy denial eats it, comes back all the stronger. So these are just sort of thoughts on it. But a more hopeful side of all of this is, I don't know if any of you know the work of Joanna Macy, World as Lover, World as Self. 

01:55:20 
That's a good book. And actually in our next course, I really want to be coming on to that. She says, she's been saying this for 50 years, 60 years, we're approaching the Great Turning. We can't, you know, she was saying this in 1980, we can't carry on with a model of infinite growth capitalism. 

01:55:41 
It just doesn't, it doesn't work. Infinite extraction of resources, infinite burning of fossil fuels. It doesn't work. It can't go on forever and us still be around. I mean, nature, the planet will be fine, you know, but we won't be if we carry on like this. 

01:55:59 
And if we don't carry on like this, we've got a hip, what she calls the Great Turning. Great Turning, you know, is happening. We're in it actually. Six mass extinction of species, you know. But her idea is good news because there are, she has this, I'm going to try to be really brief. 

01:56:23 
I know we're going over time. She talks about there's four ways historically that humans have understood the world. The world is a trap. You should try to get out of it. Actually, that's been an early Buddhist view, you know, stop being reincarnated. 

01:56:38 
Secondly, the world is a test. It's a sort of proving ground. Are you good enough? If you're good enough, you'll go to the good place. If you're not good enough, you go to the other place, you know. But there's not those are not the only ways the world has been understood. 

01:56:54 
The third way is world as lover, that it loves us and we can love it, that we're receiving of, we're receiving the bounties of the world and we can repay its gifts to us. Reciprocal relationship, pachamama, Mother Earth, must be fed, must be tended, must be cared for. 

01:57:16 
We love our great Mother and in return She loves us and supports us. And fourthly, world as self. We're not separate. We are the world, the world is us. So if we're extracting from the world, we're extracting from ourself. 

01:57:36 
If we're attacking the world, we're attacking ourself. If we're attacking others, we're attacking ourself. This is the great sort of non-dual discovery. What can we do? I mean, it's been the challenge of Zen. 

01:57:59 
Actually, Zen emerged, evolved in times of great political strife. It went through this terrible civil war in China, all promulgated by one man, Ann Lushan. He started this rebellion in, I forget, 745, I think, CE, and chaos, disaster across China. 

01:58:25 
But it happened. We're not there yet, and hopefully we won't be. But the practice is, number one, being more equanimous in ourselves, and maybe tapping into the universal guesthouse. And number two, how do we live it? 

01:58:57 
How do we live? We discover that. We discover our own capacity for allowing. And what do we do about it? Well, the guiding light here is compassion. When we're doing that universal allowing, the best we can, we're actually tapping into compassion. 

01:59:20 
We start to feel the love, and that's what we act out of the best we can. And what that means for all of us is different for everybody. But we act out of love. This is what the great Bernie Glassman Rocha used to say. 

01:59:42 
Start this three tenets. Start by not knowing. Don't think you know about self and world. Put that aside. Number two, bear witness. See what's going on. Thirdly, act out of love. So we do that the best we can. 

02:00:07 
That's our great dedication, I think, from this practice, to act lovingly. And each of us, we're all on paths of training, trying to get better at it. You know, sometimes we'll forget, we'll mess up, back in the saddle, trying to get better. 

02:00:30 
OK, sorry, I've gone over. I want to just say huge thanks to all of you for being on this course. It's a great honor for me that you're willing to listen to my ramblings. But I mean, I feel OK about it because you're really doing it. 

02:00:50 
your own practice and my own real deep purpose is just the best I can to help you with your practice and whatever little snippets you can garner. Hey, forget what you don't like, you know, take what you like and leave the rest. 

02:01:07 
So anything that's helpful for you, take it. And anything that's not helpful for you, just put it aside. Thank you so much. And Abby, over to you. Thank you so much, Henry, especially your willingness to go a little over to answer fully that last question to the extent it certainly deserves. 

02:01:31 
And just a few announcements, which again, I'm going to put these links in the chat, but it will be in a follow up email. So no worries about catching all of them because there are several. First announcement is that we'll be sending out information about the next four week course within the next couple of weeks. 

02:01:52 
The course is going to be called Self and No Self, upcoming, definitely the themes from Joanna Macy's book that Henry just mentioned. And then I'm going to post these few links. There's a lot of upcoming events with Henry, including July 12th with the Sati Center for Buddhist Studies and Original Love Workshop. 

02:02:16 
That's online. There's the in-person retreat in Berkeley, California, July 26 to 27. Also, there's now more spots open for the weekend retreat in London because we've gotten a bigger retreat space. That's August 9 to 10. 

02:02:33 
And then finally, for now, there is October 9 through 12, another in-person retreat in Santa Cruz, California of realizing the way. Deep, deep gratitude for all of you joining this course. It's been a really amazing experience to be learning alongside all of you. 

02:02:56 
And as usual, I'll still keep the room open for a few minutes with some soft music, if that's something that's supportive for you and wishing you all a lot of joy and health and balance and nourishment and compassionate engagement in this world. 

02:03:14 
And hope to see you at the next course. Thank you so much all. 
