
00:00 
Welcome back. I want to close out this trail on koans, with a retreat that's a little more down-to-earth and tangible, although still using a koan. I do know how strange and enigmatic and mysterious koans can seem, and we've had quite a few I think that we've had from these sessions with jaojo that might sometimes seem rather beautiful and clear, possibly, and sometimes seem strange and foreign and perhaps unhelpful. 

00:38 
I do believe that over time, like the time we've been having with these koans over these past sessions, something is going on, even when we may not feel it, and somehow our certainties and preconceptions and assumptions about the way this world works and about who we are are actually being at least subtly undermined or weakened or softened, and that is paving the way for shifts in how we understand and perceive and experience this world. 

01:16 
Beautiful shifts, wonderful shifts that open us up to a world of love, a world of appreciation, a world of compassion that can really help with our suffering and the suffering of others and the way we can approach this world in a much more open-hearted, wholehearted way than we might previously have known was possible. 

01:40 
So koans do actually serve a deep purpose for us humans, but now we're going to turn to a much more, yeah, graspable koan, and it's what is this? In most traditions of Zen that have come down to us and which use koans, it's common to go through dozens. 

02:00 
if not hundreds of koans. The tradition lineage in which I trained is said to use about 670, and actually it's not uncommon for people to go through them twice. But there are also a few traditions where they believe that it's enough to have one koan for your whole lifetime, and that this is the one. 

02:22 
What is this? It's always relevant, it's always bringing us to the immediate moment at hand, and it's really always actually also asking the question, this entire experience I'm having that I think of as my life, what is it? 

02:38 
So it's a deep koan. I remember one student who was working with this koan telling me about a time she was heading out on a run, doing up her alms. tying up these laces on these shoes that were going on these feet, that were attached to these limbs, and then to be going out onto a trail across this land, all of it suddenly she was able to experience in a totally fresh way, as if she'd come from somewhere else and been suddenly sort of given this body to inhabit. 

03:21 
In other words, her consciousness was suddenly fresh and new, and able to appreciate what she was experiencing in an entirely open, fresh way, and she felt that was by virtue of sitting with this coin for some time. 

03:42 
So, let's see how it goes, and I'm looking forward to seeing you in the first session, up next. 
