
00:00 
Hi. So, some teachers say that the way koans work is that they are actually a kind of encapsulation of the awakened mind and heart of the teachers, the practitioners, who uttered them, and that when we sit with them, we are being encouraged and invited into our own awake nature, our own awake consciousness. 

00:29 
Somehow that within us which is already awake recognizes itself more easily through the intervention and encouragement that the little phrases of the koans bring. Again, it's a matter of trying less and in time trusting a little bit more that these sometimes strange but always simple phrases contain a help for us. 

01:01 
So, let's settle once again. Let your body find its own way to a natural, easy, comfortable, restful position and state, softening, loosening. Become aware. Stillness can really support a deeper kind of awareness. 

01:43 
And the little phrases of the koans can carry us into a broader, deeper awareness. Who really am I? What really is this consciousness, this awareness? The oak tree out in the garden. letting your whole being, your whole body-mind system, power down. 

03:16 
Not be trying, not be striving for anything. Can we let this little phrase be enough? The oak tree in the garden. Is it possible that somehow the little phrase of the koan is actually showing us who we are, what we are? 

04:43 
The oak tree outside in the yard. you Just for now, nothing to do, nothing to strive for. The Oak Tree in the Garden. what if somehow this whole world is already open, showing itself, showing what it really is as the tree outside What if all things share the same nature, just beneath appearances? 

08:20 
What if all things share one nature, the oak tree outside in the garden? you What if, somehow, deep down, under the appearance of many separate things, there's a non-separateness? The oak tree over there in the garden. 

10:44 
just gently switching gear, bringing movement back into the body and raising the eyes and looking around and remaining aware. Great, a quick reminder of where we're at. We're using co-ans to support us in our practice, to fertilize our practice in ways that we sometimes feel and ways that we may not feel, except later on. 

11:15 
Either way, the most important thing, as I commonly stress, is to be sitting still and quiet every day the best we can. Next up, another dialogue with Zhao Zhou. Have a great rest of your day. 
